"I knew a little boy," she said, "whose name was Arthur Scott; he lived with his grandmamma,
who loved him very much, and who wished that he might grow up to be a good man. Little Arthur
had a garden of his own, and in it grew an apple tree, which was then very small, but to his
great joy had upon it two fine rosy-cheeked apples, the first ones it had produced. Arthur
wished to taste of them very much to know if they were sweet or sour; but he was not a selfish
boy, and he says to his grandmother one morning:

"'I think I shall leave my apples on the tree till my birthday, then papa and mamma and sister
Fanny will come and see me, and we will eat them together.'

"'A very good thought,' said his grandmother; 'and you shall gather them yourself.'

"It seemed a long time for him to wait; but the birthday came at last, and in the morning as
soon as he was dressed he ran into his garden to gather his apples; but lo! they were gone.
A naughty boy who saw them hanging on the tree, had climbed over the garden wall and stolen them.

"Arthur felt very sorry about losing his apples, and he began to cry, but he soon wiped his
eyes, and said to his grandmother:

"'It is hard to lose my nice apples, but it was much worse for that naughty boy to commit so
great a sin as to steal them. I am sure God must be very angry with him; and I will go and
kneel down and ask God to forgive him.'

"So he went and prayed for the boy who had stolen his apples. Now, William, do you not think
that was returning good for evil?"

"O, yes," said William; "and I thank you, mother, for your pretty story. I now understand what
my new book means." Little Arthur grew to be a man, and always bore a good name.

THE MOTHERLESS BIRDS.

There were two men who were neighbors to each other, living in a distant country where they
had to labor hard for the support of their families. One of them was greatly troubled to know
who would take care of his children if he should die. But the other man was not so troubled,
and was always very cheerful, saying to his neighbor: "Never distrust Providence."

One day as the sorrowful man was laboring in the fields, sad and cast down, he saw some little
birds enter a bush, go out and then return again. He went towards the bush, and saw two nests
side by side, and in both nests some little birds, newly hatched and still without feathers.
He saw the old birds go in a number of times, and they carried in their bills food to give
their little ones.

At one time, as one of the mothers returned with her beak full, a large vulture seized her
and carried her away; and the poor mother, struggling vainly under its talons, uttered piercing
cries. He thought the little young birds must certainly die, as they had now no mother to take
care of them. He felt so bad about them that he did not sleep any that night. The next day,
on returning to the fields, he said to himself: "I will see the little ones of this poor mother,
some without doubt have already perished."

He went up to the bush, and saw that the little ones in both nests were all alive and well.
He was very much surprised at this, and he hid himself behind the bush to see what would happen.
After a little time he heard a crying of the birds, and soon the second mother came flying
into the bush with her beak full of food, and distributed it all among the little birds in
both nests. He now saw that the orphan birds were as well provided for as when their own mother
was living.

In the evening he related the whole story to his neighbor, and said to him:

"I will never distress myself again about who will take care of my children, if I should die
before them."

His neighbor replied: "Let us always believe, hope, love, and pursue our course in peace. If
you die before me, I take care of your children, and if I die before you, you will be a father
to mine; and if we are both taken away before our children are able to provide for themselves,
there is a Father in heaven."

STORY ABOUT A ROBBER.

I will tell you a true story about a robber. A gentleman was once travelling through a very
unfrequented road, alone in a chaise, in the latter part of the day. There was no house nor
a sign of a human being there. It was a very lonely road. Presently at a sudden turn in the
road, directly towards his horse's head, a man came out of the woods. The gentleman was convinced
by his appearance that he came for no good purpose. He immediately stopped his horse, and asked
the stranger to get in and ride. The man hesitated a moment, and then stepped into the chaise.
The gentleman commenced talking with him about the loneliness of the road, and observed that
it would be an admirable place for a robbery if any one was so disposed. He proceeded to speak
of robbery and criminals, and how he thought they should be sought out and instructed, and
if possible reformed; and that we ought to try to convert and reform them; and then he began
to tell him what course he should take with a man who should attempt to rob him. He told him
that he should give him all his money first, and then begin to talk kindly to him, and show
the evil consequences of his course of life. He then said:

"Yes, I would die on the spot rather than to injure a hair of his head."

They soon came to another road, when the man, who had silently listened to all the gentleman
had said, desired to get out, saying that his home lay in that direction. The gentleman stopped
his horse, and the man got out, took his adviser by the hand, saying:

"I thank you, sir, for this ride and for all you have said to me; I shall never forget any
part of it. When I met you, it was my intention to rob you. I could easily have done so, but
your kind act and your kind words put better thoughts into my heart. I think I never shall
be guilty of the crime you have saved me from committing this afternoon. I thank God for having
met you; you have made me a better man."

GOOD COMPANIONS.

One day, says a Persian poet, I saw a bunch of roses, and in the midst of them grew a tuft
of grass.

"How," I cried to the grass, "does a poor plant like you dare to be found in the company of roses?"

And I ran to tear away the tuft, when the grass replied:

"Spare me! It is true, I am not a rose; but you will perceive from my perfume that I have been
among the roses."

This is a very pretty fable for young people. It makes us recollect one of the proverbs of
Solomon: "He that walketh with wise men shall be wise; but a companion of fools shall be destroyed."
Young people like to have companions, and it is proper that they should have them. If we had
no one to associate with, we should be unhappy. We need friends that we may confide in, and
that we may tell them what we feel and what we think. But we must take care as to the choice
of friends; for just as the grass in the fable imbibed the scent of the roses, so we become
like those with whom we associate.

BERTIE'S BOX.

A very little boy by the name of "Bertie," kept a box in which he deposited his little treasures.
After he died his mother took the key and opened it. It was full of all sorts of things. There
were specimens of stones, and shells, and moss, and grass, and dried flowers. There were, also,
curious flies, found dead; but they were not destroyed by him, as he would never sacrifice
a short sunny existence for self gratification. There were a number of books and small ornamental
toys which had been given him--a drawing slate with pencils, colored chalks, a small box of
colors, some little plates which he had colored in his own untaught style--a commenced copy
of the hymn, "I know that my Redeemer liveth"--an unfinished letter to his grandpapa, and some
torn leaves which he had found with passages of scripture upon them--a copy of the "lines on
the death of an only son." Also a number of sketches of missionary stations, chapels and schools,
which he had cut out and colored. His mother once asked him why he cut them out, saying, that
there might be some reading on the back of the pieces worth saving. "Oh no, mamma," he replied,
"I looked carefully at the backs first." In the box was a purse containing three shillings.

Such were the treasures which this little lamb had left when he died. And as you will be pleased
to know what was done with the box of treasures, I will tell you. "The thought struck me,"
says his mother, "that after he was gone, I should not know what to do with Bertie's Box of
treasures; I therefore asked him what I should do with them." He replied, "Oh, give half to
God and half to the children, and be sure to divide them fairly." The money in the box was
devoted to the purchase of the Bible--and a collecting box made in the form of a Bible; for,
said he, "when my friends come and give money to the children, then hold Bertie's box for Bertie's
share." This is a good example for all children. Your little treasures may serve a good purpose
when you die.

THE CHILD AND FLOWER.

    The Atheist in his garden stood,
      At twilight's pensive hour,
    His little daughter by his side,
      Was gazing on a flower.

    "Oh, pick that little blossom, Pa,"
      The little prattler said,
    "It is the fairest one that blooms
      Within that lowly bed."

    The father plucked the chosen flower,
      And gave it to his child;
    With parted lips and sparkling eye,
      She seized the gift and smiled.

    "O Pa--who made this pretty flower,
      This little violet blue;
    Who gave it such a fragrant smell,
      And such a lovely hue?"

    A change came o'er the father's brow,
      His eye grew strangely wild,
    New thoughts within him had been stirred
      By that sweet artless child.

    The truth flashed on the father's mind,
      The truth in all its power,
    "There is a God, my child," said he,
      "Who made that little flower."

ANNE CLEAVELAND.

Anne was the daughter of a wealthy farmer. She had a good New England school education, and
was well bred and well taught at home in the virtues and manners that constitute domestic social
life. Her father died a year before her marriage. He left a will dividing his property equally
between his son and daughter, giving to the son the homestead with all its accumulated riches,
and to the daughter the largest share of the personal property, amounting to 6 or 7000 dollars.
This little fortune became at Anne's marriage the property of her husband. It would seem that
the property of a woman received from her father should be her's. But the laws of a barbarous
age fix it otherwise.

Anne married John Warren, who was the youngest child, daintily bred by his parents. He opened
a dry goods store in a small town in the vicinity of B----, where he invested Anne's property.
He was a farmer, and did not think of the qualifications necessary to a successful merchant.
For five or six years he went on tolerably, living genteelly and recklessly, expecting that
every year's gain would make up the excess of the past. When sixteen years of their married
life had passed, they were living in a single room in the crowded street of R----. Every penny
of the inheritance was gone--three children had died--three survived; a girl of fifteen years,
whom the mother was educating to be a teacher--boy of twelve who was living at home, and Jessy,
a pale, delicate, little struggler for life, three years old.

Mrs. W---- was much changed in these sixteen years. Her round blooming cheek was pale and sunken,
her dark chestnut hair had become thin and gray, her bright eyes, over-tasked by use and watching,
were faded, and her whole person shrunken. Yet she had gained a great victory. Yes, it was
a precious pearl. And you will wish to know what it was. It was a gentle submission and resignation--a
patience under all her afflictions. But learn a lesson. Take care to whom you give your hand
in marriage.

THE ORPHAN'S VOYAGE.

Two little orphan boys, whose parents died in a foreign land, were put on board a vessel to
be taken home to their relatives and friends. On a bitter cold night, when the north-east winds
sang through the shrouds of the vessel, the little boys were crouched on deck behind a bale
of goods, to sleep for the night. The eldest boy wrapt around his younger brother his little
cloak, to shield him from the surf and sleet, and then drew him close to his side and said
to him, "the night will not be long, and as the wind blows we shall the sooner reach our home
and see the peet fire glow." So he tried to cheer his little brother, and told him to go to
sleep and forget the cold night and think about the morning that would come. They both soon
sank to sleep on the cold deck, huddled close to each other, and locked close in each other's
arms. The steerage passengers were all down below, snugly stowed away in their warm berths,
and forgot all about the cold wind and the frost. When the morning came the land appeared,
and the passengers began to pace the deck, and as the vessel moved along they tried some well
known spot to trace.

    Only the orphans do not stir,
      Of all this bustling train;
    They reached their home, this very night,
      They will not stir again!
    The winter's breath proved kind to them,
      And ended all their pain.

    But in their deep and freezing sleep,
      Clasped rigid to each other,
    In dreams they cried, "the bright morn breaks,
      Home! home! is here, my brother.
    The angel death, has been our friend,
      We come! dear father, mother!"

LOOK UP.

A little boy went to sea with his father to learn to be a sailor. One day, his father said
to him, "Come, my boy, you will never be a sailor if you don't learn to climb."

The boy was very ambitious, and soon scrambled up to the top of the rigging; but when he saw
at what a height he was he began to be frightened, and called out, "Oh, father, I shall fall,
what shall I do?"

"Look up--look up, my son," said his father; "if you look down you will be giddy; but if you
keep looking up to the flag at the top of the mast you will descend safely." The boy followed
his father's advice, and soon came down to the deck of the vessel in safety. You may learn
from this story, to look up to Jesus, as the highest example, and as the Saviour of mankind.

THE FLOWER THAT LOOKS UP.

"What beautiful things flowers are," said one of the party of little girls who were arranging
the flowers they had gathered in the pleasant fields. "Which flower would you rather be like,
Helen?"

"Just as if there would be any choice," said Laura. "I like the Rose. I should like to be queen
of flowers, or none." Laura was naturally very proud.

For my part, observed Helen, I should like to resemble the Rhododendron; when any one touches
it, or shakes it roughly, it scatters a shower of honey dew from its roseate cups, teaching
us to shower blessings upon our enemies. Oh, who does not wish to be as meek as this flower?
It is very difficult, I know, said Helen; but we are taught to possess a meek and lowly spirit.

"It is difficult, I know," said Lucy, "if we trust to our own strength. It is only when my
father looks at me in his kind manner, that I have any control of myself. What a pity it is
that we cannot always remember that the eye of our Heavenly Father is upon us." "I wish I could,"
said Helen.

"Now, Clara, we are waiting for you," said Laura. Clara smiled; and immediately chose the pale
woodbine, or convolvulus, which so carelessly winds in and out among the bushes--this is an
emblem of loving tenderness.

"Now what says Lucy?" exclaimed Helen.

"I think I can guess," said Clara; "either a violet, or a heart's ease. Am I right?"

"Not quite," said Lucy, "although both the flowers you have mentioned, are great favorites
of mine. But I think I should like to resemble the daisy, most, because it is always looking
upward."

Certainly Lucy made a wise choice. What more do we require for happiness, than to be able,
let the cloud be ever so dark, to look upward with trusting faith in God.

THE WAYSIDE FLOWER.

    There's a moral, my child,
      In the wayside flower;
    There's an emblem of life
      In its short-lived hour.
    It smiles in the sunshine
      And weeps in the shower,
    And the footstep falls
      On the wayside flower.

    Now see, my dear child,
      In the wayside flower,
    The joys and the sorrows
      Of life's passing hour.
    The footsteps of Time
      Hasten on in its power;
    And soon we must fall
      Like the wayside flower.

    Yet know, my dear child,
      That the wayside flower
    Will revive in its season
      And bloom its brief hour;
    That again we shall blossom
      In beauty and power,
    Where the foot never falls
      On the wayside flower.

THE FARMER.

    The Farmer ploughs and sows his seed,
      'Tis all that he can do;
    He cannot make the dry seed grow,
      Nor give it rain and dew.

    God sends the sunshine, dew and rain,
      And covers it with snow;
    Then let us thank Him for the gift,--
      To Him our bread we owe.

    Whene'er we view the waving grain,
      Or eat our daily food,
    Let grateful thoughts to God arise,
      Praise Him, for He is good.

    The youthful mind is like a field;
      Our teachers sow the seed;
    But when instruction's work is done,
      There's something more we need.

    Then let us pray that God may add
      His blessing to their toil;
    Then our young minds and hearts will prove
      A rich, productive soil.

MAY-DAY.

    All hail the bright, the rosy morn,
      The first of blushing May,
    While fragrant flowers the fields adorn.
      And Nature smiles so gay.

    Oh, what a joyous festival
      To all the young and fair,
    Who love to rove through verdant fields
      And breathe the balmy air.

    With rosy checks, and laughing eyes,
      They hie to Nature's bowers,
    While birds trill forth their sweetest lay,
      To pluck the fairest flowers.

    Now some have strayed to sit beneath
      A grove of maples grey,
    To twine their flowers into a wreath,
      Or cull a sweet bouquet.

    While one small group is seated round
      A florid, mossy knoll,
    And laughing lisp that they have found
      The sweetest flowers of all.

    With bouquets sweet, and garlands gay,
      They homeward then repair,
    In haste to join without delay
      The pic-nic or the fair.

    For times are not as they were wont
      To be in years gone by,
    When on the rural village green
      They reared the May-pole high;

    While gathered round a merry group
      Of youths and maidens gay,
    To crown some rosy rustic maid
      The smiling Queen of May.

THE FLOWERS OF THE FIELD.

MATT. VI. 28.

    Behold the lilies of the field,
      In thousand colors drest;
    They toil not, neither do they spin,
      Yet God the flowers hath blest.

    Then toil not for the things of earth,
      But seek your God to please;
    For Solomon, in all his pride,
      Was not arrayed like these.

    Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass
      And flowers, that fade and die,
    Will he not much more care for you,
      And all your wants supply?

    Why will ye, O ye faithless ones,
      Distrust your Father's care?
    Are ye not better than the flowers?
      Will he not hear your prayer?

    Your Father knoweth what ye need;
      Fear not, but watch and pray;
    And let your light shine more and more
      Unto the perfect day.

MY EARLY DAYS.

(SEE FRONTISPIECE.)

My father's house was indeed a pleasant home; and father was the supreme guide of his own household.
He was gentle, but he could be firm and resolute when the case demanded. Mother was the sunshine
of our little garden of love; her talents and energy gave her influence; and united to a man
like father, she was all that is lovable in the character of woman.

But the dear old home, where I grew from infancy to boyhood, and from boyhood to youth, I shall
never forget. It was a large house on the slope of a hill, just high enough to overlook several
miles of our level country, and smooth enough with its soft grassy carpet for us to roll down
from the summit to the foot of the hill. At the back of the house was another hill, where we
used to roll under the shade of the old elm, and where Miles and I would sit whole afternoons
and fly the kite, each taking turns in holding the string. This was a happy place for us, and
especially in the spring time, when the happy looking cows grazed along the pathway which winds
around the elm to the stream where Kate and I used to sail my little boat. All summer long
this place was vocal with the songs of birds, which built their nests in safety among the tall
trees of the grove in the rear of the farm. We had also the music of the running brook, and
the pleasant hum of my father's cotton mill, which brought us in our daily bread. Haying time
was always a happy season for us boys. Father's two horses, "Dick" and "Bony" would take off
the farm as large a load of hay as any in the village.

Years past on, and we were a happy band of brothers and sisters. After Kate, came the twins,
Margaret and Herbert, and last of all came the youngest darling, blue eyed Dora. We had a happy
childhood. Our station in the world was high enough to enable us to have all the harmless pleasures
and studies that were useful and actually necessary to boys and girls of our station. Father
always thought that it was better in early youth not to force the boys to too hard study, and
mother loved best to see Kate and Margaret using the fingers in fabricating garments, than
in playing the harp. We were free, happy, roving children on father's farm, unchained by the
forms of fashionable life. We had no costly dresses to spoil, and were permitted to play in
the green fields without a servant's eye, and to bathe in the clear shallow stream without
fear of drowning. As I have said before, these were happy days; and when I think of them gone,
I often express my regret that we did not improve them more for the cultivation of the mind
and the affections. In the next story you will see that there were some passing clouds in our
early summer days.

MARGARET AND HERBERT.

In a large family there are often diversity of character and varieties of mood and temper,
which bring some clouds of sorrow. In our little Eden of innocence there were storms now and
then. Miles was a little wild and headstrong from his babyhood, and Margaret, though very beautiful,
was often wilful and vain. For five years the twins had grown up together the same in beauty
and health. One day an accident befell Herbert, and the dear child rose from his bed of sickness
a pale and crippled boy. His twin sister grew up tall and blooming. The twins loved each other
very much, and it was a pleasant sight to see how the deformed boy was cherished and protected
by his sister Margaret. She would often leave us in the midst of our plays to go and sit by
Herbert, who could not share with us in them.

We had our yearly festivals, our cowslip gatherings, our blackberry huntings, our hay makings,
and all the delights so pleasant to country children. Our five birthdays were each signalized
by simple presents and evening parties, in the garden or the house, as the season permitted.
Herbert and Margaret's birthdays came in the sunny time of May, when there were double rejoicings
to be made. They were always set up in their chairs in the bower, decorated with flowers and
crowned with wreaths. I now think of Margaret smiling under her brilliant garland, while poor
Herbert looked up to her with his pale sweet face. I heard him once say to her when we had
all gone away to pluck flowers:

"How beautiful you are to-day, Margaret, with your rosy cheeks and brown hair."

"But that does not make me any better or prettier than you, because I am strong and you are
not, or that my cheeks are red and yours are pale."

Miles was just carrying little Dora over the steeping stones at the brook, when Herbert cried:

"O, if I could only run and leap like Miles; but I am very helpless."

To which Margaret replied: "Never mind, brother; I will love you and take care of you all your
life," and she said these words with a sister's love, as she put her arms around the neck of
her helpless brother. She loved him the more, and aimed to please him by reading books to him
which were his delight. This was a pleasant sight, and the brothers always admired Margaret
for her attention to their helpless brother.

THE BIT OF GARDEN.

Young children like to have a small piece of land for a garden which they can call their own.
And it is very pleasant to dig the ground, sow the seed, and watch the little green plants
which peep out of the earth, and to see the beautiful buds and fresh blossoms.

Every boy and girl has a bit of garden, and we are told in the good book to take good care
of it, and see that the weeds of vice do not spread over it, and to be sure and have it covered
over with plants of goodness. This garden is the HEART. Such things as anger, sloth, lying
and cheating, are noxious weeds. But if you are active and industrious, and keep cultivating
this little garden, and keep out all the bad weeds, God will help you to make a good garden,
full of pleasant plants, and flowers of virtue. I have seen some gardens which look very bad,
covered with briars and weeds, the grass growing in the paths, and the knotty weeds choking
the few puny flowers that are drooping and dying out. Every thing seems to say--"How idle the
owner of this garden is." But I have seen other gardens where there were scarcely any weeds.
The walks look tidy, the flowers in blossom, the trees are laden with fruit, and every thing
says, "How busy the owner is." Happy are you, dear children, if you are working earnestly in
the garden of your hearts. Your garden will be clean, pleasant, and fruitful--a credit and
comfort to you all your days.

REMEMBER THE CAKE.

I will tell you an anecdote about Mrs. Hannah More, when she was eighty years old. A widow
and her little son paid a visit to Mrs. More, at Barley Wood. When they were about to leave,
Mrs. M. stooped to kiss the little boy, not as a mere compliment, as old maidens usually kiss
children, but she took his smiling face between her two hands, and looked upon it a moment
as a mother would, then kissed it fondly more than once. "Now when you are a man, my child,
will you remember me?" The little boy had just been eating some cake which she gave him, and
he, instead of giving her any answer, glanced his eyes on the remnants of the cake which lay
on the table. "Well," said Mrs. M., "you will remember the cake at Barley Wood, wont you?"
"Yes," said the boy, "It was nice cake, and you are so kind that I will remember both." "That
is right," she replied, "I like to have the young remember me for being kind--then you will
remember old Mrs. Hannah More?"

