"What would you like best to do now,--now at once. Can you go down again to your husband's
friends?"

"No;--no;--no."

"As for the dinner, never mind about that. I can't blame him for making use of my house in
my absence, as far as that goes,--though I wish he could have contented himself with such a
dinner as my servants could have prepared for him. I will have some tea here."

"Let me stay with you, papa, and make it for you."

"Very well, dear. I do not mean to be ashamed to enter my own dining-room. I shall, therefore,
go in and make your apologies." Thereupon Mr. Wharton walked slowly forth and marched into
the dining-room.

"Oh, Mr. Wharton," said Mrs. Dick, "we didn't expect you."

"Have you dined yet, sir?" asked Lopez.

"I dined early," said Mr. Wharton. "I should not now have come in to disturb you, but that
I have found Mrs. Lopez unwell, and she has begged me to ask you to excuse her."

"I will go to her," said Lopez, rising.

"It is not necessary," said Wharton. "She is not ill, but hardly able to take her place at
table." Then Mrs. Dick proposed to go to her dear niece; but Mr. Wharton would not allow it,
and left the room, having succeeded in persuading them to go on with their dinner. Lopez certainly
was not happy during the evening, but he was strong enough to hide his misgivings, and to do
his duty as host with seeming cheerfulness.

CHAPTER XLIX

"Where Is Guatemala?"

Though his daughter's words to him had been very wild they did almost more to convince Mr.
Wharton that he should not give his money to his son-in-law than even the letters which had
passed between them. To Emily herself he spoke very little as to what had occurred that evening.
"Papa," she said, "do not ask me anything more about it. I was very miserable,--because of
the dinner." Nor did he at that time ask her any questions, contenting himself with assuring
her that, at any rate at present, and till after her baby should have been born, she must remain
in Manchester Square. "He won't hurt me," said Mr. Wharton, and then added with a smile, "He
won't have to have any more dinner-parties while I am here."

Nor did he make any complaint to Lopez as to what had been done, or even allude to the dinner.
But when he had been back about a week he announced to his son-in-law his final determination
as to money. "I had better tell you, Lopez, what I mean to do, so that you may not be left
in doubt. I shall not intrust any further sum of money into your hands on behalf of Emily."

"You can do as you please, sir,--of course."

"Just so. You have had what to me is a very considerable sum,--though I fear that it did not
go for much in your large concerns."

"It was not very much, Mr. Wharton."

"I dare say not. Opinions on such a matter differ, you know. At any rate, there will be no
more. At present I wish Emily to live here, and you, of course, are welcome here also. If things
are not going well with you, this will, at any rate, relieve you from immediate expense."

"My calculations, sir, have never descended to that."

"Mine are more minute. The necessities of my life have caused me to think of these little things.
When I am dead there will be provision for Emily made by my will,--the income going to trustees
for her benefit, and the capital to her children after her death. I thought it only fair to
you that this should be explained."

"And you will do nothing for me?"

"Nothing;--if that is nothing. I should have thought that your present maintenance and the
future support of your wife and children would have been regarded as something."

"It is nothing;--nothing!"

"Then let it be nothing. Good morning."

Two days after that Lopez recurred to the subject. "You were very explicit with me the other
day, sir."

"I meant to be so."

"And I will be equally so to you now. Both I and your daughter are absolutely ruined unless
you reconsider your purpose."

"If you mean money by reconsideration,--present money to be given to you,--I certainly shall
not reconsider it. You may take my solemn assurance that I will give you nothing that can be
of any service to you in trade."

"Then, sir,--I must tell you my purpose, and give you my assurance, which is equally solemn.
Under those circumstances I must leave England, and try my fortune in Central America. There
is an opening for me at Guatemala, though not a very hopeful one."

"Guatemala!"

"Yes;--friends of mine have a connection there. I have not broken it to Emily yet, but under
these circumstances she will have to go."

"You will not take her to Guatemala!"

"Not take my wife, sir? Indeed I shall. Do you suppose that I would go away and leave my wife
a pensioner on your bounty? Do you think that she would wish to desert her husband? I don't
think you know your daughter."

"I wish you had never known her."

"That is neither here nor there, sir. If I cannot succeed in this country I must go elsewhere.
As I have told you before, £20,000 at the present moment would enable me to surmount all my
difficulties, and make me a very wealthy man. But unless I can command some such sum by Christmas
everything here must be sacrificed."

"Never in my life did I hear so base a proposition," said Mr. Wharton.

"Why is it base? I can only tell you the truth."

"So be it. You will find that I mean what I have said."

"So do I, Mr. Wharton."

"As to my daughter, she must, of course, do as she thinks fit."

"She must do as I think fit, Mr. Wharton."

"I will not argue with you. Alas, alas; poor girl!"

"Poor girl, indeed! She is likely to be a poor girl if she is treated in this way by her father.
As I understand that you intend to use, or to try to use, authority over her, I shall take
steps for removing her at once from your house." And so the interview was ended.

Lopez had thought the matter over, and had determined to "brazen it out," as he himself called
it. Nothing further was, he thought, to be got by civility and obedience. Now he must use his
power. His idea of going to Guatemala was not an invention of the moment, nor was it devoid
of a certain basis of truth. Such a suggestion had been made to him some time since by Mr.
Mills Happerton. There were mines in Guatemala which wanted, or at some future day might want,
a resident director. The proposition had been made to Lopez before his marriage, and Mr. Happerton
probably had now forgotten all about it;--but the thing was of service now. He broke the matter
very suddenly to his wife. "Has your father been speaking to you of my plans?"

"Not lately;--not that I remember."

"He could not speak of them without your remembering, I should think. Has he told you that
I am going to Guatemala?"

"Guatemala! Where is Guatemala, Ferdinand?"

"You can answer my question though your geography is deficient."

"He has said nothing about your going anywhere."

"You will have to go,--as soon after Christmas as you may be fit."

"But where is Guatemala;--and for how long, Ferdinand?"

"Guatemala is in Central America, and we shall probably settle there for the rest of our lives.
I have got nothing to live on here."

During the next two months this plan of seeking a distant home and a strange country was constantly
spoken of in Manchester Square, and did receive corroboration from Mr. Happerton himself. Lopez
renewed his application and received a letter from that gentleman saying that the thing might
probably be arranged if he were in earnest. "I am quite in earnest," Lopez said as he showed
this letter to Mr. Wharton. "I suppose Emily will be able to start two months after her confinement.
They tell me that babies do very well at sea."

During this time, in spite of his threat, he continued to live with Mr. Wharton in Manchester
Square, and went every day into the city,--whether to make arrangements and receive instructions
as to Guatemala, or to carry on his old business, neither Emily nor her father knew. He never
at this time spoke about his affairs to either of them, but daily referred to her future expatriation
as a thing that was certain. At last there came up the actual question,--whether she were to
go or not. Her father told her that though she was doubtless bound by law to obey her husband,
in such a matter as this she might defy the law. "I do not think that he can actually force
you on board the ship," her father said.

"But if he tells me that I must go?"

"Stay here with me," said the father. "Stay here with your baby. I'll fight it out for you.
I'll so manage that you shall have all the world on your side."

Emily at that moment came to no decision, but on the following day she discussed the matter
with Lopez himself. "Of course you will go with me," he said, when she asked the question.

"You mean that I must, whether I wish to go or not."

"Certainly you must. Good G----! where is a wife's place? Am I to go out without my child,
and without you, while you are enjoying all the comforts of your father's wealth at home? That
is not my idea of life."

"Ferdinand, I have been thinking about it very much. I must beg you to allow me to remain.
I ask it of you as if I were asking my life."

"Your father has put you up to this."

"No;--not to this."

"To what then?"

"My father thinks that I should refuse to go."

"He does, does he?"

"But I shall not refuse. I shall go if you insist upon it. There shall be no contest between
us about that."

"Well; I should hope not."

"But I do implore you to spare me."

"That is very selfish, Emily."

"Yes,"--she said, "yes. I cannot contradict that. But so is the man selfish who prays the judge
to spare his life."

"But you do not think of me. I must go."

"I shall not make you happier, Ferdinand."

"Do you think that it is a fine thing for a man to live in such a country as that all alone?"

"I think he would be better so than with a wife he does not--love."

"Who says I do not love you?"

"Or with one who does--not--love him." This she said very slowly, very softly, but looking
up into his eyes as she said it.

"Do you tell me that to my face?"

"Yes;--what good can I do now by lying? You have not been to me as I thought you would be."

"And so, because you have built up some castle in the air that has fallen to pieces, you tell
your husband to his face that you do not love him, and that you prefer not to live with him.
Is that your idea of duty?"

"Why have you been so cruel?"

"Cruel! What have I done? Tell me what cruelty. Have I beat you? Have you been starved? Have
I not asked and implored your assistance,--only to be refused? The fact is that your father
and you have found out that I am not a rich man, and you want to be rid of me. Is that true
or false?"

"It is not true that I want to be rid of you because you are poor."

"I do not mean to be rid of you. You will have to settle down and do your work as my wife in
whatever place it may suit me to live. Your father is a rich man, but you shall not have the
advantage of his wealth unless it comes to you, as it ought to come, through my hands. If your
father would give me the fortune which ought to be yours there need be no going abroad. He
cannot bear to part with his money, and therefore we must go. Now you know all about it." She
was then turning to leave him, when he asked her a direct question. "Am I to understand that
you intend to resist my right to take you with me?"

"If you bid me go,--I shall go."

"It will be better, as you will save both trouble and exposure."

Of course she told her father what had taken place, but he could only shake his head, and sit
groaning over his misery in his chambers. He had explained to her what he was willing to do
on her behalf, but she declined his aid. He could not tell her that she was wrong. She was
the man's wife, and out of that terrible destiny she could not now escape. The only question
with him was whether it would not be best to buy the man,--give him a sum of money to go, and
to go alone. Could he have been quit of the man even for £20,000, he would willingly have paid
the money. But the man would either not go, or would come back as soon as he had got the money.
His own life, as he passed it now, with this man in the house with him, was horrible to him.
For Lopez, though he had more than once threatened that he would carry his wife to another
home, had taken no steps towards getting that other home ready for her.

During all this time Mr. Wharton had not seen his son. Everett had gone abroad just as his
father returned to London from Brighton, and was still on the continent. He received his allowance
punctually, and that was the only intercourse which took place between them. But Emily had
written to him, not telling him much of her troubles,--only saying that she believed that her
husband would take her to Central America early in the spring, and begging him to come home
before she went.

Just before Christmas her baby was born, but the poor child did not live a couple of days.
She herself at the time was so worn with care, so thin and wan and wretched, that looking in
the glass she hardly knew her own face. "Ferdinand," she said to him, "I know he will not live.
The Doctor says so."

"Nothing thrives that I have to do with," he answered gloomily.

"Will you not look at him?"

"Well; yes. I have looked at him, have I not? I wish to God that where he is going I could
go with him."

"I wish I was;--I wish I was going," said the poor mother. Then the father went out, and before
he had returned to the house the child was dead. "Oh, Ferdinand, speak one kind word to me
now," she said.

"What kind word can I speak when you have told me that you do not love me? Do you think that
I can forget that because--because he has gone?"

"A woman's love may always be won back again by kindness."

"Psha! How am I to kiss and make pretty speeches with my mind harassed as it is now?" But he
did touch her brow with his lips before he went away.

The infant was buried, and then there was not much show of mourning in the house. The poor
mother would sit gloomily alone day after day, telling herself that it was perhaps better that
she should have been robbed of her treasure than have gone forth with him into the wide, unknown,
harsh world with such a father as she had given him. Then she would look at all the preparations
she had made,--the happy work of her fingers when her thoughts of their future use were her
sweetest consolation,--and weep till she would herself feel that there never could be an end
to her tears.

The second week in January had come and yet nothing further had been settled as to this Guatemala
project. Lopez talked about it as though it was certain, and even told his wife that as they
would move so soon it would not be now worth while for him to take other lodgings for her.
But when she asked as to her own preparations,--the wardrobe necessary for the long voyage
and her general outfit,--he told her that three weeks or a fortnight would be enough for all,
and that he would give her sufficient notice. "Upon my word he is very kind to honour my poor
house as he does," said Mr. Wharton.

"Papa, we will go at once if you wish it," said his daughter.

"Nay, Emily; do not turn upon me. I cannot but be sensible to the insult of his daily presence;
but even that is better than losing you."

Then there occurred a ludicrous incident,--or combination of incidents,--which, in spite of
their absurdity, drove Mr. Wharton almost frantic. First there came to him the bill from Messrs.
Stewam and Sugarscraps for the dinner. At this time he kept nothing back from his daughter.
"Look at that!" he said. The bill was absolutely made out in his name.

"It is a mistake, papa."

"Not at all. The dinner was given in my house, and I must pay for it. I would sooner do so
than that he should pay it,--even if he had the means." So he paid Messrs. Stewam and Sugarscraps
£25 9s. 6d., begging them as he did so never to send another dinner into his house, and observing
that he was in the habit of entertaining his friends at less than three guineas a head. "But
Château Yquem and Côte d'Or!" said Mr. Sugarscraps. "Château fiddlesticks!" said Mr. Wharton,
walking out of the house with his receipt.

Then came the bill for the brougham,--for the brougham from the very day of their return to
town after their wedding trip. This he showed to Lopez. Indeed the bill had been made out to
Lopez and sent to Mr. Wharton with an apologetic note. "I didn't tell him to send it," said Lopez.

"But will you pay it?"

"I certainly shall not ask you to pay it." But Mr. Wharton at last did pay it, and he also
paid the rent of the rooms in the Belgrave Mansions, and between £30 and £40 for dresses which
Emily had got at Lewes and Allenby's under her husband's orders in the first days of their
married life in London.

"Oh, papa, I wish I had not gone there," she said.

"My dear, anything that you may have had I do not grudge in the least. And even for him, if
he would let you remain here, I would pay willingly. I would supply all his wants if he would
only--go away."

CHAPTER L

Mr. Slide's Revenge

"Do you mean to say, my lady, that the Duke paid his electioneering bill down at Silverbridge?"

"I do mean to say so, Mr. Slide." Lady Eustace nodded her head, and Mr. Quintus Slide opened
his mouth.

"Goodness gracious!" said Mrs. Leslie, who was sitting with them. They were in Lady Eustace's
drawing-room, and the patriotic editor of the "People's Banner" was obtaining from a new ally
information which might be useful to the country.

"But 'ow do you know, Lady Eustace? You'll pardon the persistency of my inquiries, but when
you come to public information accuracy is everything. I never trust myself to mere report.
I always travel up to the very fountain 'ead of truth."

"I know it," said Lizzy Eustace oracularly.

"Um--m!" The Editor as he ejaculated the sound looked at her ladyship with admiring eyes,--with
eyes that were intended to flatter. But Lizzie had been looked at so often in so many ways,
and was so well accustomed to admiration, that this had no effect on her at all. "'E didn't
tell you himself; did 'e, now?"

"Can you tell me the truth as to trusting him with my money?"

"Yes, I can."

"Shall I be safe if I take the papers which he calls bills of sale?"

"One good turn deserves another, my lady."

"I don't want to make a secret of it, Mr. Slide. Pountney found it out. You know the Major?"

"Yes, I know Major Pountney. He was at Gatherum 'imself, and got a little bit of cold shoulder;--didn't
he?"

"I dare say he did. What has that to do with it? You may be sure that Lopez applied to the
Duke for his expenses at Silverbridge, and that the Duke sent him the money."

"There's no doubt about it, Mr. Slide," said Mrs. Leslie. "We got it all from Major Pountney.
There was some bet between him and Pountney, and he had to show Pountney the cheque."

"Pountney saw the money," said Lady Eustace.

Mr. Slide stroked his hand over his mouth and chin as he sat thinking of the tremendous national
importance of this communication. The man who had paid the money was the Prime Minister of
England,--and was, moreover, Mr. Slide's enemy! "When the right 'and of fellowship has been
rejected, I never forgive," Mr. Slide has been heard to say. Even Lady Eustace, who was not
particular as to the appearance of people, remarked afterwards to her friend that Mr. Slide
had looked like the devil as he was stroking his face. "It's very remarkable," said Mr. Slide;
"very remarkable!"

"You won't tell the Major that we told you," said her Ladyship.

"Oh dear, no. I only just wanted to 'ear how it was. And as to embarking your money, my lady,
with Ferdinand Lopez,--I wouldn't do it."

"Not if I get the bills of sale? It's for rum, and they say rum will go up to any price."

"Don't, Lady Eustace. I can't say any more,--but don't. I never mention names. But don't."

Then Mr. Slide went at once in search of Major Pountney, and having found the Major at his
club extracted from him all that he knew about the Silverbridge payment. Pountney had really
seen the Duke's cheque for £500. "There was some bet,--eh, Major?" asked Mr. Slide.

"No, there wasn't. I know who has been telling you. That's Lizzie Eustace, and just like her
mischief. The way of it was this;--Lopez, who was very angry, had boasted that he would bring
the Duke down on his marrow-bones. I was laughing at him as we sat at dinner one day afterwards,
and he took out the cheque and showed it me. There was the Duke's own signature for £500,--'Omnium,'
as plain as letters could make it." Armed with this full information, Mr. Slide felt that he
had done all that the most punctilious devotion to accuracy could demand of him, and immediately
shut himself up in his cage at the "People's Banner" office and went to work.

This occurred about the first week in January. The Duke was then at Matching with his wife
and a very small party. The singular arrangement which had been effected by the Duchess in
the early autumn had passed off without any wonderful effects. It had been done by her in pique,
and the result had been apparently so absurd that it had at first frightened her. But in the
end it answered very well. The Duke took great pleasure in Lady Rosina's company, and enjoyed
the comparative solitude which enabled him to work all day without interruption. His wife protested
that it was just what she liked, though it must be feared that she soon became weary of it.
To Lady Rosina it was of course a Paradise on earth. In September, Phineas Finn and his wife
came to them, and in October there were other relaxations and other business. The Prime Minister
and his wife visited their Sovereign, and he made some very useful speeches through the country
on his old favourite subject of decimal coinage. At Christmas, for a fortnight, they went to
Gatherum Castle and entertained the neighbourhood,--the nobility and squirearchy dining there
on one day, and the tenants and other farmers on another. All this went very smoothly, and
the Duke did not become outrageously unhappy because the "People's Banner" made sundry severe
remarks on the absence of Cabinet Councils through the autumn.

After Christmas they returned to Matching, and had some of their old friends with them. There
was the Duke of St. Bungay and the Duchess, and Phineas Finn and his wife, and Lord and Lady
Cantrip, Barrington Erle, and one or two others. But at this period there came a great trouble.
One morning as the Duke sat in his own room after breakfast he read an article in the "People's
Banner," of which the following sentences were a part. "We wish to know by whom were paid the
expenses incurred by Mr. Ferdinand Lopez during the late contest at Silverbridge. It may be
that they were paid by that gentleman himself,--in which case we shall have nothing further
to say, not caring at the present moment to inquire whether those expenses were or were not
excessive. It may be that they were paid by subscription among his political friends,--and
if so, again we shall be satisfied. Or it is possible that funds were supplied by a new political
club of which we have lately heard much, and with the action of such a body we of course have
nothing to do. If an assurance can be given to us by Mr. Lopez or his friends that such was
the case we shall be satisfied.

"But a report has reached us, and we may say more than a report, which makes it our duty to
ask this question. Were those expenses paid out of the private pocket of the present Prime
Minister? If so, we maintain that we have discovered a blot in that nobleman's character which
it is our duty to the public to expose. We will go farther and say that if it be so,--if these
expenses were paid out of the private pocket of the Duke of Omnium, it is not fit that that
nobleman should any longer hold the high office which he now fills.

"We know that a peer should not interfere in elections for the House of Commons. We certainly
know that a Minister of the Crown should not attempt to purchase parliamentary support. We
happen to know also the almost more than public manner,--are we not justified in saying the
ostentation?--with which at the last election the Duke repudiated all that influence with the
borough which his predecessors, and we believe he himself, had so long exercised. He came forward
telling us that he, at least, meant to have clean hands;--that he would not do as his forefathers
had done;--that he would not even do as he himself had done in former years. What are we to
think of the Duke of Omnium as a Minister of this country, if, after such assurances, he has
out of his own pocket paid the electioneering expenses of a candidate at Silverbridge?" There
was much more in the article, but the passages quoted will suffice to give the reader a sufficient
idea of the accusation made, and which the Duke read in the retirement of his own chamber.

He read it twice before he allowed himself to think of the matter. The statement made was at
any rate true to the letter. He had paid the man's electioneering expenses. That he had done
so from the purest motives he knew and the reader knows;--but he could not even explain those
motives without exposing his wife. Since the cheque was sent he had never spoken of the occurrence
to any human being,--but he had thought of it very often. At the time his private Secretary,
with much hesitation, almost with trepidation, had counselled him not to send the money. The
Duke was a man with whom it was very easy to work, whose courtesy to all dependent on him was
almost exaggerated, who never found fault, and was anxious as far as possible to do everything
for himself. The comfort of those around him was always matter of interest to him. Everything
he held, he held as it were in trust for the enjoyment of others. But he was a man whom it
was very difficult to advise. He did not like advice. He was so thin-skinned that any counsel
offered to him took the form of criticism. When cautioned what shoes he should wear,--as had
been done by Lady Rosina, or what wine or what horses he should buy, as was done by his butler
and coachman, he was thankful, taking no pride to himself for knowledge as to shoes, wine,
or horses. But as to his own conduct, private or public, as to any question of politics, as
to his opinions and resolutions, he was jealous of interference. Mr. Warburton therefore had
almost trembled when asking the Duke whether he was quite sure about sending the money to Lopez.
"Quite sure," the Duke had answered, having at that time made up his mind. Mr. Warburton had
not dared to express a further doubt, and the money had been sent. But from the moment of sending
it doubts had repeated themselves in the Prime Minister's mind.

Now he sat with the newspaper in his hand thinking of it. Of course it was open to him to take
no notice of the matter,--to go on as though he had not seen the article, and to let the thing
die if it would die. But he knew Mr. Quintus Slide and his paper well enough to be sure that
it would not die. The charge would be repeated in the "People's Banner" till it was copied
into other papers; and then the further question would be asked,--why had the Prime Minister
allowed such an accusation to remain unanswered? But if he did notice it, what notice should
he take of it? It was true. And surely he had a right to do what he liked with his own money
so long as he disobeyed no law. He had bribed no one. He had spent his money with no corrupt
purpose. His sense of honour had taught him to think that the man had received injury through
his wife's imprudence, and that he therefore was responsible as far as the pecuniary loss was
concerned. He was not ashamed of the thing he had done;--but yet he was ashamed that it should
be discussed in public.

Why had he allowed himself to be put into a position in which he was subject to such grievous
annoyance? Since he had held his office he had not had a happy day, nor,--so he told himself,--had
he received from it any slightest gratification, nor could he buoy himself up with the idea
that he was doing good service for his country. After a while he walked into the next room
and showed the paper to Mr. Warburton. "Perhaps you were right," he said, "when you told me
not to send that money."

"It will matter nothing," said the private Secretary when he had read it,--thinking, however,
that it might matter much, but wishing to spare the Duke.

"I was obliged to repay the man as the Duchess had--had encouraged him. The Duchess had not
quite--quite understood my wishes." Mr. Warburton knew the whole history now, having discussed
it all with the Duchess more than once.

"I think your Grace should take no notice of the article."

No notice was taken of it, but three days afterwards there appeared a short paragraph in large
type,--beginning with a question. "Does the Duke of Omnium intend to answer the question asked
by us last Friday? Is it true that he paid the expenses of Mr. Lopez when that gentleman stood
for Silverbridge? The Duke may be assured that the question shall be repeated till it is answered."
This the Duke also saw and took to his private Secretary.

"I would do nothing at any rate till it be noticed in some other paper," said the private Secretary.
"The 'People's Banner' is known to be scandalous."

"Of course it is scandalous. And, moreover, I know the motives and the malice of the wretched
man who is the editor. But the paper is read, and the foul charge if repeated will become known,
and the allegation made is true. I did pay the man's election expenses;--and, moreover, to
tell the truth openly as I do not scruple to do to you, I am not prepared to state publicly
the reason why I did so. And nothing but that reason could justify me."

"Then I think your Grace should state it."

"I cannot do so."

"The Duke of St. Bungay is here. Would it not be well to tell the whole affair to him?"

"I will think of it. I do not know why I should have troubled you."

"Oh, my lord!"

"Except that there is always some comfort in speaking even of one's trouble. I will think about
it. In the meantime you need perhaps not mention it again."

"Who? I? Oh, certainly not."

"I did not mean to others,--but to myself. I will turn it in my mind and speak of it when I
have decided anything." And he did think about it,--thinking of it so much that he could hardly
get the matter out of his mind day or night. To his wife he did not allude to it at all. Why
trouble her with it? She had caused the evil, and he had cautioned her as to the future. She
could not help him out of the difficulty she had created. He continued to turn the matter over
in his thoughts till he so magnified it, and built it up into such proportions, that he again
began to think that he must resign. It was, he thought, true that a man should not remain in
office as Prime Minister who in such a matter could not clear his own conduct.

Then there was a third attack in the "People's Banner," and after that the matter was noticed
in the "Evening Pulpit." This notice the Duke of St. Bungay saw and mentioned to Mr. Warburton.
"Has the Duke spoken to you of some allegations made in the press as to the expenses of the
late election at Silverbridge?" The old Duke was at this time, and had been for some months,
in a state of nervous anxiety about his friend. He had almost admitted to himself that he had
been wrong in recommending a politician so weakly organised to take the office of Prime Minister.
He had expected the man to be more manly,--had perhaps expected him to be less conscientiously
scrupulous. But now, as the thing had been done, it must be maintained. Who else was there
to take the office? Mr. Gresham would not. To keep Mr. Daubeny out was the very essence of
the Duke of St. Bungay's life,--the turning-point of his political creed, the one grand duty
the idea of which was always present to him. And he had, moreover, a most true and most affectionate
regard for the man whom he now supported, appreciating the sweetness of his character,--believing
still in the Minister's patriotism, intelligence, devotion, and honesty; though he was forced
to own to himself that the strength of a man's heart was wanting.

"Yes," said Warburton; "he did mention it."

"Does it trouble him?"

"Perhaps you had better speak to him about it." Both the old Duke and the private Secretary
were as fearful and nervous about the Prime Minister as a mother is for a weakly child. They
could hardly tell their opinions to each other, but they understood one another, and between
them they coddled their Prime Minister. They were specially nervous as to what might be done
by the Prime Minister's wife, nervous as to what was done by every one who came in contact
with him. It had been once suggested by the private Secretary that Lady Rosina should be sent
for, as she had a soothing effect upon the Prime Minister's spirit.

"Has it irritated him?" asked the Duke.

"Well;--yes, it has;--a little, you know. I think your Grace had better speak to him;--and
not perhaps mention my name." The Duke of St. Bungay nodded his head, and said that he would
speak to the great man and would not mention any one's name.

And he did speak. "Has any one said anything to you about it?" asked the Prime Minister.

"I saw it in the 'Evening Pulpit' myself. I have not heard it mentioned anywhere."

"I did pay the man's expenses."

"You did!"

"Yes,--when the election was over, and, as far as I can remember, some time after it was over.
He wrote to me saying that he had incurred such and such expenses, and asking me to repay him.
I sent him a cheque for the amount."

"But why?"

"I was bound in honour to do it."

"But why?"

There was a short pause before this second question was answered. "The man had been induced
to stand by representations made to him from my house. He had been, I fear, promised certain
support which certainly was not given him when the time came."

"You had not promised it?"

"No;--not I."

"Was it the Duchess?"

"Upon the whole, my friend, I think I would rather not discuss it further, even with you. It
is right that you should know that I did pay the money,--and also why I paid it. It may also
be necessary that we should consider whether there may be any further probable result from
my doing so. But the money has been paid, by me myself,--and was paid for the reason I have
stated."

"A question might be asked in the House."

"If so, it must be answered as I have answered you. I certainly shall not shirk any responsibility
that may be attached to me."

"You would not like Warburton to write a line to the newspaper?"

"What;--to the 'People's Banner!'"

