On a rustic seat in the arbor sat Sibyl Warrington reading. Her golden hair was coiled in close
braids around her well-shaped head, her firm erect figure was arrayed in a simple dress of
silver gray, and everything about her, from the neat little collar to the trim boot, pleased
the eye unconsciously without attracting the attention. Sibyl Warrington knew what was becoming
to her peculiar style of beauty, and nothing could induce her to depart from her inflexible
rules. Fashion might decree a tower of frizzed curls, and Sibyl would calmly watch the elaborate
structure raised on the heads of all her friends, but her own locks, in the meanwhile, remained
plainly folded back from her white forehead with quaker-like smoothness. Fashion might turn
her attention to the back of the head, and forthwith waterfalls and chignons would appear at
her behest, but Sibyl, while congratulating her friends upon the wonders they achieved, would
still wind her thick golden braids in a classical coil, so that her head in profile brought
up to the beholder's mind a vision of an antique statue. Rare was her taste; no clashing colors
or absurd puffs and furbelows were ever allowed to disfigure her graceful form, and thus her
appearance always charmed the artistic eye, although many of her schoolmates called her "odd"
and "quakerish." Sibyl had already obtained her little triumphs. An artist of world-wide fame
had asked permission to paint her head in profile, as a study, and whenever she appeared at
a party the strangers present were sure to inquire who she was, and follow her movements with
admiring glances, although there were many eyes equally bright, and many forms equally graceful
in the gay circle of Westerton society. But in spite of her beauty, Sibyl was not a general
favorite; she had no intimate friends among her girl companions, and she never tried to draw
around her a circle of admirers. She had no ambition to be "popular," as it is called, and
she did not accept all the invitations that came to her as most young girls do; for, as she
said, "occasionally it is better to be missed." Thus, in a small way, Miss Warrington was something
of a diplomatist, and it was evident to Aunt Faith that her niece looked beyond her present
sphere, and cherished a hidden ambition to shine in the highest circles of the queen cities
of America,--Boston, New York, and Washington. With this inward aim, Sibyl Warrington held
herself somewhat aloof from the young gentlemen of Westerton; there were, however, two whom
she seemed to favor in her gentle way, and Aunt Faith watched with some anxiety the progress
of events. Graham Marr was a young collegian, the only child of a widowed mother who lived
in Westerton during the summer months. He had a certain kind of fragile beauty, but his listless
manner and drawling voice rendered him disagreeable to Aunt Faith, who preferred manly strength
and vivacity even though accompanied by a shade of bluntness. But Sibyl always received Graham
Marr with one of her bright smiles, and she would listen to his poetry hour after hour; for
Graham wrote verses, and liked nothing better than reclining in an easy chair and reading them
aloud.

"What Sibyl can see in Gra-a-m'ma, I cannot imagine," Bessie would sometimes say; "he is a
lazy white-headed egotist; a good judge of lace and ribbons, but mortally afraid of a dog,
and as to powder, the very sight of a gun makes him faint."

But Aunt Faith had heard of the fortune which would come to Graham Marr at the death of an
uncle, and she could not but fear that Sibyl had heard of it also. The grandfather, displeased
with his sons, had left a mill tying up his estate for the grandchildren, who were not to receive
it until all of the first generation were dead. Only one son now remained, an infirm old man
of seventy, and at his death the hoarded treasure would be divided among the heirs, two girls
living in North Carolina, and Graham Marr, who was just twenty-one. Sibyl was eighteen, and
self-possessed beyond her years; could it be that she really found anything to like in Graham
Marr? Aunt Faith could not tell. As she sat on the piazza, looking down into the garden, the
gate opened and a young man entered,--the Rev. John Leslie, a clergyman who had recently come
to Westerton to take charge of a new church in the suburbs, a struggling little missionary
chapel, where it required a large faith to see light ahead in the daily toil and slow results.
Mr. Leslie caught the shimmer of Sibyl's gray dress under the arbor, and turning off to the
right through a box-bordered path, he made his way to her side and seated himself on the bench.
Aunt Faith could not hear their conversation, for the old-fashioned garden was large and wide,
but now and then she caught the tones of the young man's earnest voice, although Sibyl's replies
were inaudible, for she possessed that excellent thing in woman, a clear, low voice.

John Leslie was poor. He had only his salary, and that was but scanty. Energetic and enthusiastic,
he loved his work, and his whole soul was in it. He was no plodding laborer, who had taken
the field because it happened to be nearest to him; he was no loiterer, who had entered the
field because he thought it would give him a larger chance for idleness than the close-drawn
ranks of business life. He had felt the inward call which is given to but few, and he obeyed
it instantly. To him the world was literally a harvest field, and he, one of the hard working
laborers; he had no worldly ambition; he looked upon life with the eyes or a true Christian;
his little chapel was as much to him as a large city church, influential and wealthy, could
have been, as he loved his small and somewhat uninteresting congregation with his whole heart.
Older men called him an enthusiast. Would that the world held more enthusiasts like him; men
who have forsaken all to follow Him, men to whom the whole world and its riches are as nothing
compared to the souls waiting to hear the tidings of salvation. For even in Christian America,
there are in all our streets souls who have not heard the tidings. It is their own fault, do
you say? They can come to our churches at any time. Nay, my friend; we must go out into the
highways and hedges and force them to come in with kindly sympathy and brotherly aid.

John Leslie was the other friend whom Sibyl Warrington had selected from the large circle of
Westerton society. Did she really like him? Aunt Faith could not decide this either, but she
noticed the increasing interest in the young clergyman's manner, as he came and went to and
from the old stone house. Free from guile as Nathanael of old, John Leslie felt an increasing
attachment to the beautiful Miss Warrington, who came occasionally to his little church, and
seemed, whenever he spoke on the subject, so truly interested in the work of his life; he talked
with her about his Sunday School, and her suggestions had been of service to him; for Sibyl
possessed a talent for organization, and a ready tact quite unusual for one so young. And in
this work she was no hypocrite; she enjoyed her conversations with Mr. Leslie, and looked forward
to his visits with real pleasure. What wonder that he thought her a true child of God, an earnest
Christian, a fellow-laborer in the vineyard? Sometimes, when Aunt Faith was present and heard
Mr. Leslie's conversation, her old heart glowed within her breast, and she felt herself carried
back to the ancient days when the young converts went about the world with ardent enthusiasm,
preaching the new gospel to every creature in spite of perils by land and sea, perils of torture,
and perils of death itself. Then she would look at Sibyl. Sometimes the girl's cheek glowed
with an answering enthusiasm, and for the time being, Aunt Faith would think that her heart
was touched, and her soul uplifted by the earnest love of God which shone out from John Leslie's
words. But the next day, perhaps, a letter from her cousin in Washington would come, and Sibyl's
face would light up over the descriptions of some great ball, and her thoughts turn towards
the approaching winter with double interest.

A mist came with the twilight, and a slight chill in the air soon brought Sibyl to the shelter
of the piazza; she never trifled with her health, her good looks were of serious importance
to her, and she never hazarded them for the sake of such sentiment as sitting in an arbor when
the dew was falling, or loitering in the moonlight when the air was chilly.

"Good-evening, Mrs. Sheldon," said Mr. Leslie as they approached, holding out his hand in cordial
greeting; "we have come up to the shelter of your pleasant piazza to finish our conversation
in safety."

"I hope there was no danger," replied Aunt Faith with a smile; "a hot argument, for instance."

"Oh, no; on the contrary the danger, if there was any, came from the opposite direction. I
was afraid the dew might dampen Miss Warrington's dress."

"And her enthusiasm also," said Aunt Faith, with a shade of merriment in her pleasant voice.

"Certainly not her enthusiasm," replied the young clergyman gravely; "I think it would take
more than dew-drops to dampen such enthusiasm as hers." As he spoke, his eyes were turned full
towards Sibyl's face, but he met no answering glance; Sibyl was occupied in spreading out the
folds of her skirt to counteract any possible injury from the dampness. "He does not doubt
her sincerity in the least," thought Aunt Faith; "perhaps, after all, his influence will be
strong enough to cure her one fault, the one blemish of her character, the tendency towards
worldliness which I have noticed in her since early childhood."

"We were speaking of Margaret Brown, Mrs. Sheldon," said Mr. Leslie when they were all seated
on the piazza; "that girl has made a brave battle with fate, and I have been trying to help
her. Miss Warrington has also been much interested in her; no doubt she has told you Margaret's
history?"

"No," replied Aunt Faith, "I have heard nothing of her." Sibyl colored, and Mr. Leslie looked
surprised; a slight shade rested on his frank face a moment, but soon vanished in the interest
of the story. "Margaret Brown is a poor working girl about twenty years of age, Mrs. Sheldon;
an orphan with a younger sister and two younger brothers to support, and nothing but her two
busy hands to depend upon. She is a sewing-girl and a skilful workwoman, so that by incessant
labor over her machine, day after day, she is able to keep her little family together, and,
more than all, to send them to school. She realizes the disadvantages of her own ignorance,
and she feels a noble ambition to educate those orphan children. Her faith is great; it is
like the faith of the primitive Christians who lived so near the times of the Lord Jesus, that,
in their prayers, they asked for what they needed with childish confidence. It was her great
faith which first drew me towards her; she was a regular attendant at the chapel service, and
in the course of my visits, I went to see her in the little home she has made in the third
story of a lodging house at South End. It was Saturday, and I saw the three children, already
showing evidences of improved education in their words and looks, while, busily sewing on her
machine, sat the sister-mother, pale and careworn, but happy in the success of her plan. It
seemed to me a great load for one pair of shoulders, and I said so. The children had gone into
another room, and as I spoke, rashly perhaps, the overworked girl burst into tears. 'Oh, sir,'
she said, 'it is the wish of my life to give them a good schooling, and I don't mind the work.
But sometimes it is so hard! If it was not for the prayers, I could not get through another day.'

"'Your prayers are a comfort to you,' I asked.

"'They are more than that, sir,' she replied earnestly; 'they are life itself. Every morning
I kneel down and just put the whole day into the Lord's hands, asking Him to give us bread,
and help us all,--me in my work and the children in their lessons. And while I'm asking, some
way a kind of peace comes over me, and although I may know there is not a crumb in the closet,
or a cent in my purse, I always get up with a light heart. The Bible is true, indeed, sir;
I can't read it myself, but my little sister, she reads to me evenings. It says, 'the Lord
will provide.' He does; He has. So far, me and mine have not suffered, although I can never
see my way a week ahead.'"

"Mr. Leslie," said Aunt Faith, "I must try and help Margaret; please give me her address."

"Miss Warrington has it; I think she has already been there," replied Mr. Leslie. At this moment
a form approached the house through the dusk of evening, a step sounded up the walk, and Graham
Marr appeared. "Ah, good evening, ladies!" he said, in his languid voice. "Mr. Leslie, I believe!
Your servant, sir. Miss Warrington, I have brought that new poem from the French; I am sure
you will like it."

"Thank you," said Sibyl, smiling. "Pray be seated, Mr. Marr."

But the enthusiasm died away, the conversation languished, and Mr. Leslie soon rose to take
leave. Then Sibyl stepped forward, and accompanied him part way down the garden-walk, pausing
for a few moments earnest conversation before he said "good night."

"Now what made her do that?" thought Aunt Faith, as she tried to keep up a conversation with
the languid Mr. Marr; "does she like Mr. Leslie better than she is willing to acknowledge?"

But Sibyl returned to her place on the piazza, and soon entered into an animated discussion
of the last volume of poems, in which Aunt Faith's old-fashioned ideas found little to interest
them.

"Well, young people," she said pleasantly, after half an hour of patient listening, "I am afraid
I do not appreciate modern poetry. I am behind the times, I suppose; but I really like to understand
what a poet means, and, now-a-days, that is almost impossible."

"The mystery of poetry is its highest charm," said Graham Marr; "true poetry is always unintelligible."

"Then I fear I am not poetical, Mr. Marr. But I am, as you see, frank enough to acknowledge
my deficiencies, and, if you will excuse me, I will go into the sitting-room and finish some
work that lies in my basket."

Want of courtesy was not one of Graham's faults; indeed, he prided himself upon his polished
manners; so he accompanied Aunt Faith within doors, placed an arm-chair by the table, drew
up a footstool for her comfort, and even lingered a moment to admire the shaded worsteds in
her basket, before he returned to the piazza and Sibyl. Once back in the moonlight, however,
the poetical conversation soon began again, and the murmur of the two voices came faintly to
Aunt Faith's ear as she sat by the table, while the light breeze brought up from the garden
the fragrance of the flowers, always strongest after nightfall.

Back of the old stone house on the north side, the ground sloped down towards the lake; first
grassy terrace and bank, then a large vegetable and fruit garden, terminating in a pasture
and grove. The stable and carriage-house stood off to the left, and the place was somewhat
carelessly kept, more like a farm than a residence; but an air of cosy comfort pervaded the
whole, and the grounds seemed to be as full of chickens and ducks, cats and dogs, doves and
sparrows, horses and cows, as the house was full of canary and mocking-birds, gold-fish, kittens,
and plants, besides a large aquarium. Up from the back pasture, at this moment, two shadowy
forms were stealing. As they drew nearer, sharp eyes might have discovered that they were two
persons on horseback coming up from the road which ran east and west across the foot of the
pasture. At the garden-fence they stopped, the gentleman dismounted and lifted the lady to
the ground. It was Bessie Darrell and her cousin Hugh Warrington.

"Hush, Hugh; don't make me laugh so! we shall be discovered," she said, as she gathered up
her long skirt.

"But it is such a good joke!" said Hugh, mounting his horse again. "Think of the fun we've
had! And you ride like a little witch."

"We can go again to-morrow night, can't we, Hugh?"

"I suppose so; if you can get away unobserved."

"Of course I can. Oh, it is such fun! I like it better than anything I ever did, Hugh; and
you are a dear good fellow to teach me."

"Teach you!" exclaimed Hugh, with a laugh; "that's good! Why, you took to it as a duck takes
to water. What a glorious gallop we have had! By the way, Bessie, Gideon Fish would look well
on horseback!"

"Or Graham Marr," said Bessie laughing. "I do believe he is on the piazza with Sibyl this very
moment."

"If he is, I propose we extinguish him. Out, little candle," said Hugh, striking a dramatic
attitude.

"You won't be gone long, Hugh?"

"No; the man will be waiting at the road."

"Then I will run upstairs, lock up my riding skirt, and come down and wait for you."

Bessie went through the garden and up to her room, while Hugh, riding one horse and leading
the other, crossed the pasture and the grove, and gave them to a man who was waiting near the
fence: he led them down the narrow road towards the west, for the old stone house was in the
east suburb of Westerton, more than two miles from the business portion of the town.

Bessie Darrell was sixteen,--a tall, slender maiden, with irregular features, brown complexion,
dark eyes, and a quantity of dark, curling hair which defied all restraint, whether of comb,
net, or ribbon. Her eyes were bright and her expression merry, but beyond this there was little
beauty in her face. A quick student, Bessie always stood at the head of her classes for scholarship,
and at the foot as regards demeanor. Twice had she been expelled for daring escapades in defiance
of rule, and Aunt Faith's heart had ached with anxiety, when the truant returned home in disgrace.
But her merry vivacity had made home so pleasant, that the seasons of penance were, as Tom
said, "the jolliest of the year," and Gem openly hoped that Bessie would soon be expelled again.
Poor Aunt Faith sometimes thought there must be a tinge of gypsy blood in Bessie's ancestors
on the Darrell side of the house, for in no other way could she account for her niece's taste
for wild rambles and adventure. "Bessie, my child," she said one evening during the previous
year, when she had happened to discover her wayward niece returning from a solitary drive with
Sultan, one of the carriage horses, in Hugh's high buggy, "if you are fond of driving, you
shall go when you please. I will hire a low basket phaeton for your especial use, and I shall
be glad to go with you when you wish."

"Oh, Auntie! if I can go when I please, there is no fun in it," said Bessie, laughing.

"Then I am to conclude, my dear, that the fun, as you call it, consists in deceiving me," said
Aunt Faith, gravely.

"Oh no, Auntie; not you especially, but all the world, you know. 'It's against the rule!' That
sentence has always been my greatest temptation. I do so long to try all those forbidden things;
if I had been Eve, and if the forbidden fruit had been a delicious peach instead of a commonplace
apple, I should certainly have taken it. Now there was Miss Sykes at Corry Institute; she was
always saying, 'Young ladies, it is against the rule to go into the garret. Three bad marks
to any one who even opens the door.' That was enough for me; I slipped off my shoes and climbed
up the stairs, while a crowd of girls stood in the hall to see what happened. I opened the
door and went in, and after a moment I stepped right through the lath and plastering and hurt
myself severely. Of course I got the bad marks, and a big bill for lath and plastering in addition
to my lame leg, and the whole thing was Miss Sykes' fault."

"You deliberately disobeyed her rule, Bessie."

"Why have such a goose of a rule, then? Why didn't she say right out that we must not go into
the garret because there was no flooring there? Then we would have understood the whole thing.
For my part, I don't believe in piling temptation in people's way like that."

"My dear child, we cannot always know. We must all sometimes be content to give up our wills
to the guidance of a Wiser Hand,--be content simply to trust."

"I don't think that time will ever come to me, Aunt Faith; Hugh says the human mind is sufficient
for itself."

Aunt Faith sighed, and laid her hand gently on the young girl's dark curls. "My child," she
said in a low voice, "I cannot bring myself to pray that you may learn the lesson of trust,
for it is a very hard one. But I fear it will come to you, as, sooner or later, it comes to
almost all of us."

"Dear Aunt Faith," said the impulsive Bessie, throwing her arms around her aunt's neck, "of
all your children, not one loves you more truly than I do!"

"I believe you do, my child," said Aunt Faith, returning the caress.

Arrayed in her ordinary dress, Bessie Darrell went down the back stairs and seated herself
on the porch steps. In a few moments Hugh joined her. "Do you feel tired?" he asked.

"Tired! No, indeed. Horseback riding never tired me. You will take me again to-morrow night?"

"I think it is you that takes me, Brownie. Is Marr there?"

"Yes; quoting poetry like everything. I heard him out of the front-hall window; something about
'a rosy cloud,' I believe."

"Are they sitting directly under the hall window?" asked Hugh.

"Yes; in two arm-chairs, side by side."

"Let us go up and have a look at them," said Hugh. So up they stole, and took their places
at the upper window.

The old stone house was two stories high, with wings on each side, which projected out beyond
the main building; the space enclosed by stone walls on three sides was floored with stone,
and lofty stone pillars ran up to the overhanging room. There was no intersection at the second
story, so that the view of the piazza from the upper windows was uninterrupted. It was a pleasant
piazza, fronting towards the south, overlooking the old-fashioned garden with its little box-bordered
paths, and entirely cut off from the lake winds, which are apt to have an easterly sharpness
in them. On this piazza sat Sibyl and Graham Marr, and the two listeners above caught fragments
of their poetical conversation. "I say, Bessie, do you know what a 'lambent waif' is?" whispered
Hugh. "What a calf that Marr is! How can Sibyl listen to him? He has not common sense."

"I believe he is to have uncommon cents, sometime," said Bessie, punning atrociously. "However,
if my knowledge of Sibyl is worth anything, I should say she really prefers Mr. Leslie."

"What, the minister!" exclaimed Hugh; "I am surprised. Not that I object at all, but ministers'
wives sometimes have a hard life."

"Gideon Fish says, that ministers' wives ought to be the happiest women on earth, because their
husbands are always at home, brightening the domestic shrine with their presence," quoted Bessie,
with a dramatic tone.

"That is a fish-story; I know it by the sound. I say, Bessie, wouldn't it be fine fun to throw
the great red blanket down on their heads in the middle of the next verse?"

As Bessie highly approved of this suggestion, the two conspirators crept away softly to find
their blanket. But it was safely packed away in the bottom of a chest, and some search was
necessary to bring it to the surface; in the midst of which, Tom and Gem appeared on the scene,
curious to know what was going on.

"Run away, children, and shut the door after you!" said Hugh, coming up from the chest with
a red face.

"No, Mr. Fitz!" replied Tom, deliberately seating himself on a box; "not one step do I go until
I know what you're up to--some fun, I know. Come, Bessie; tell us, that's a good fellow."

"We shall have to tell them, Hugh," said Bessie, "or they might spoil the whole thing." So
the plan was hastily explained.

"Come along, Gem," said Tom, in great glee.

"All right, Bessie, we won't spoil your fun."

The two children ran off down the back stairs and out upon the terrace behind the house. "Don't
you say one word, Gem Morris," said Tom in an excited whisper, "but I'm going to be in this
game, if I know myself. The blanket's very well, but the dogs are better, and Graham Marr is
terribly afraid of 'em. I never liked him since he called me 'my lad,' and this will be a good
chance to pay him off." So saying, Tom started towards the carriage-house, closely followed
by Gem; for, as Hugh said, they always hunted in couples, and whether they played or quarrelled,
they were always together.

Opening a side door of the carriage-house, Tom called out Pete and Grip; Turk had a kennel
of his own, and sleepily obeyed his master's summons.

"Now Gem," said Tom, "I shall go round to the big barberry-bush, and when the blanket comes
down I shall send the dogs at it. They won't hurt anybody,--they never do,--but they'll make
believe to be awful savage, and Grip will bark like mad. You'd better slip round into the parlor
and look through the blinds; it's dark there." Gem obeyed softly, and Tom disappeared around
the corner of the house, followed by the dogs, who understood from their master's low order,
that a secret reconnaissance was to be made, and moved stealthily behind him single file, big
Turk first, then Pete Trone, Esq., and last of all plebeian Grip, his tail fairly sweeping
the ground in the excess of his caution.

On the piazza all was peaceful and romantic. No thought of coming danger clouded the poet's
fancies, as he repeated a stanza composed the previous evening by the light of the moon. "I
never write by gas-light, Miss Warrington," he said, "but I keep pencil and paper at hand to
transcribe the poetical thoughts that come to me in the moonlight. Here is a verse that floated
into my mind when the moon was at its highest splendor last night:--

  'Shine out, Oh moon! in the wide sky,--
    The creamy cloud,--the dreamy light--
    My heart is seething in the night.
  Shine out, Oh moon! and let me die.'"

"I think we'd better let him, don't you?" whispered Hugh to Bessie at the upper window. She
assented, and down went the great blanket on the heads of the two below, enveloping them in
sudden darkness. At the same instant the three dogs plunged forward and pawed at the dark mass;
Grip barking furiously, and Pete nosing underneath as if he was in search of a rat-hole. The
noise brought Aunt Faith to the door.

"What is it?" she said in alarm, gazing at the struggling blanket with her near-sighted eyes.

"Nothing, Aunt Faith, but some of the children's nonsense," answered Sibyl, extricating herself,
and stepping out from the stifling covering. "Mr. Marr, I hope you are not alarmed or hurt."

"Not in the least,--oh!--oh!--" gasped poor Graham, crawling out of the blanket. "Those dogs!--oh!--get
out!--get down, sir!"

"They will not hurt you," said Sibyl, coming to the rescue. "Grip, be quiet! Pete get down,
sir! You are not going, Mr. Marr?"

"I think,--yes,--I think I will," said the discomfited poet; "it is getting late. I was on
the point of making my adieu when,--when the children played their little joke. Ha!--ha!--really,
a very good joke. Quite amusing! Good-evening, ladies! Really,--quite amusing!"

When Graham had gone, Aunt Faith stepped out on the piazza. "Tom," she said, in a severe tone,
"I am ashamed of you! Such pranks are only fit for a child!" But no answer came from the silent
garden.

"Grace, you are there somewhere! come out and show yourself," said Aunt Faith. But still no
reply. Then she called the dogs, but they, too, had mysteriously disappeared.

"Sibyl," she said, going back into the sitting room, "I am very sorry the children were so
rude. I am afraid Mr. Marr will feel seriously offended."

"Oh, as to that, Aunt Faith, it is a matter of small consequence what he feels. But I see Pete
has torn off part of the trimming of my skirt; I will mend it before I go to bed. Good-night,--"
and Sibyl kissed her aunt in her gentle way, and went off to her room in the wing.

"I don't believe she cares for the calf after all," whispered Hugh to Bessie, as, after watching
this scene from the top of the stairs, they separated for the night.

A few minutes later, when Aunt Faith went up to her room, all her children seemed to be unusually
sound asleep; the lights were all out, and Tom's snores came through his half-opened door with
astonishing regularity.

"It's of no use, my dears," called out Aunt Faith, standing at the door of her room; "I know
you are all wide awake, and know you were all in that blanket-and-dog affair." A burst of stifled
laughter greeted this announcement, and, when Aunt Faith got safely in her own room and closed
the door, she laughed too.

CHAPTER II.

LIFE AT THE OLD STONE HOUSE.

"Come, come, children," said Aunt Faith, as she went down the stairs, "do not waste so much
time in talking or you will be late for prayers."

The talking consisted of a dialogue between Tom and Gem, carried on through the half-closed
door of their respective rooms during the morning toilet, and the subject, as usual, was Pete
Trone, Esq. "Who did Pete vote for?" began Gem.

"Pete voted the Republican ticket, like a sensible dog!" replied Tom, in a high key.

"He did not! I watched him at the polls. He is an out-and-out Democrat!" returned Gem, at the
top of her voice.

"No such thing!" shouted back her brother; "he attended a rat-ification meeting last night
in the cellar, and made a speech from the text, 'aut rates aut bones.'"

"Oh, if you're going to quote Latin, I give up," said Gem, "and besides, there's the bell."

In a few moments the family assembled in the sitting-room,--Tom, Gem, Sibyl, and after some
delay, Bessie; Hugh did not appear, and Aunt Faith, with an inward sigh, opened her Bible and
read a chapter from the New Testament. Then they all met in prayer, and the mother-aunt's heart
went up in earnest petition for help during the day, and a thanksgiving for the peaceful rest
of the previous night; as she rose from her knee--, she kissed each one of her children with
a fervent blessing, and the day was begun.

The sitting-room was large and sunny and the old-fashioned windows were set low down in the
thick stone walls, so that a recess was formed in which a cushioned seat was fitted; Gem's
favorite resort, with Estella Camilla Wales. A cabinet organ, a harp, and a violin, betrayed
the musical tastes of the family, and an easel, with a picture in water-colors, as well as
the books and papers on the table showed their varied occupations. Aunt Faith believed that
music was a safeguard against danger. The love of harmony kept young people together around
a piano, and filled their evenings with enjoyment; it was always a resource, and opened a field
of interest and employment which increased the store of life's innocent pleasures. In addition
to this negative virtue, Aunt Faith believed in the duty of taking part in the worship of the
sanctuary; she believed that every voice, unless absolutely disqualified, should join in the
praises of the great Creator, and some of her happiest moments, were those when her children
gathered around the cabinet organ to sing the hymns she had taught them, or took their part
in the congregational worship of song.

Sibyl played correctly both upon the piano and organ; Grace was already an apt scholar; Hugh
sang, when in the mood, with a wonderful expression in his rich baritone; and Bessie, although
negligent in practising, sometimes brought a world of melody out of her harp, charming all
ears with her wild improvisations.

Tom owned the violin. The cousins united in the declaration that he had no musical ability,
but Aunt Faith stood by him, and even encouraged his spasmodic attempts to find the tune. His
favorite air was "Nelly Bly." On this he would progress satisfactorily until he came to "Hi,"
when he was sure to waver. "Hi," E flat; "Hi," E natural; "Hi," F natural; and finally, when
all within hearing were driven nearly to frenzy, out would come the missing F sharp, and the
tune go on triumphantly to its close.

The breakfast table at the old stone house was always a pleasant scene; Aunt Faith presided
behind the coffee urn, and before the meal was over, the postman came with letters and papers,
which caused another half hour of pleasant loitering. This morning Sibyl had her usual heap,--letters
from various schoolmates, and one from Mrs. Leighton, her relative in Washington, which seemed
to be full of interest. Aunt Faith also had several letters, and Bridget handed one to Bessie,--a
large, yellow envelope, whose ill-formed address attracted general curiosity. "I say, Bess,
who's your friend?" said Tom.

"Never mind," answered his cousin, with flushing cheeks, as she put the unopened letter into
her pocket and went on hastily with her breakfast. Hugh, who had entered a moment before, glanced
at Bessie, and then diverted the attention by a word-assault upon his sister. "What a mass
of writing, Sibyl," he began, stretching out his hand; "I'll help you to read it. That rose-colored
sheet will do; the one crossed over four times." But Sibyl quietly secured her correspondence,
and went on with her reading. "Does she tell you what she wore at the last ball, dear? Was
it blue, with rose ruffles, or pink with green puffles," continued Hugh. Sibyl smiled; her
temper was never disturbed by her brother's banter. "If you could see Louisa May, you would
be sure to admire her, Hugh, ruffles and all," she said, calmly.

"Undoubtedly; but as I cannot see her, ruffles and all, give me the nearest thing to it, a
sight of that page,--

  'Tis but a little criss-cross sheet,
    But oh,--how fondly dear!
  'Twill cheer my breakfast while I eat,
    And keep the coffee clear,"

chanted Hugh, in a melo-dramatic tone.

"Aunt Faith," said Sibyl, as she rose to leave the table, "Mrs. Leighton has invited me to
go to Saratoga next month, to stay four weeks."

"Saratoga!" exclaimed Bessie. "Well, you are always lucky, Sibyl. But why don't you do something
instead of standing there so quietly?"

"What would you have me do?" said Sibyl, smiling.

"Why, dance,--sing,--hurrah,--anything to give vent to your excitement."

"But I am not excited, Bessie," answered Sibyl, quietly.

"I don't believe you'd be excited if the house was on fire," said Tom, looking up from his plate.

"No, probably not," said Aunt Faith; "and for that reason, Sibyl would be of more use in such
an emergency than all the rest of you put together. Does Mrs. Leighton fix any time for the
journey, dear?"

"Yes, aunt; about the fifteenth of July."

"Would you like to go?" continued Aunt Faith, somewhat anxiously.

"Of course she would!" exclaimed Bessie. "Four weeks at Saratoga. Think of it!"

"Of course she would!" said Hugh. "Four weeks of puffs and ruffles!"

"Of course she would!" said Gem. "Four weeks of dancing!"

"Of course she would!" said Tom. "Ice cream every day!"

"I believe I will not decide immediately," said Sibyl, slowly; "I will think over the matter
before I write." As her niece left the room, Aunt Faith's eyes followed her with a perplexed
expression, but recalling her thoughts, she rang the bell, and then set about her daily task
of washing the delicate breakfast-cups, and polishing the old-fashioned silver until it reflected
her own face back again.

In the garret over the old stone house, a small room had been finished off as a "studio" for
Bessie. It was but a rough little den with board walls and ceiling, but two south windows let
in a flood of light, and the boards were covered with pictures in all stages of completion,--fragments
of landscape, and portraits of all the members of the family circle, more or less caricatured
according to Bessie's mood when she executed them. A strong patent-lock secured the door of
this treasure-house, and seldom was any one admitted save Hugh. In vain had Tom bored holes
in the walls, in vain had Gem pleaded pathetically through the key-hole, Bessie was inexorable
and the door was closed. Chalked upon the outside of this fortress were some of Tom's sarcastic
comments intended as a revenge for his exclusion,--

  "Turn, stranger, turn, and from this sanctum rush,--
  The fires of genius burn when Bessie wields the brush."

And this: "She won't let me in! Hinc illae lachrymae!" This legend was accompanied by a chalk
picture of himself shedding large tear-drops into a tub.

This morning, however, the studio was not in a state of siege, as Tom and Gem were both engaged
in a work of great importance in the garden. Seated near one of the windows was Bessie, her
eyes full of tears, and her face the image of despair. A low knock at the door interrupted
her reverie. "Is it you, Hugh?" she said, rising.

"Yes," replied her cousin, and in a minute he was admitted. "What is the matter, Bessie?" he
said kindly. "I saw at breakfast that something was wrong. You will tell me, won't you?"

Bessie hesitated, and a flush rose in her dark face. "I suppose I must!" she answered, after
a pause; "I always tell you everything Hugh, and I want your advice; but I don't know what
you will think of me after you have read this letter."

"Never mind; give it to me, Brownie. You have always been my dear, little cousin, and it will
take more than a letter to separate us," said Hugh, opening the envelope. The letter was as
follows; "Miss B. Daril: I don't want to trouble you, but I must have that money. Bills is
coming in every day. It belongs to me, as you know yourself, Miss, very well, and I've a right
to every cent. If it don't come soon I shall have to send a lawyer for it, which I hate to
do, Miss; and am yours respectful, J. Evins."

"What can this mean, Bessie?" asked Hugh, in astonishment.

"It means, last winter, at Featherton Hall, Hugh, I got into a wild set of girls there, and
one of our amusements was sending out for suppers late in the evening; the servants would do
anything for money, and they were always willing to go over to Evins, and get what we wanted
for a small bribe. The bill was allowed to run on in my name, for, although it was understood
that all the dormitory girls should share in the expense, it was more convenient to order in
one name. Then the end of the term came, and there was so much confusion and hurry, that most
of the girls forgot all about the bill, and went home without paying anything towards the suppers.
I fully intended to give my share to Evins before I left, but the amount was so large I could
not come near it," concluded Bessie, with two tears rolling down her cheeks.

"You have not told Aunt Faith, then," asked Hugh.

