Comstock told him if he had heard any thing, that he ought to have come to him, and let him
know, before he began loading pistols. He then demanded to know, what he had heard. Humphreys
answered at first in a very suspicious and ambiguous manner, but at length said, that Gilbert
Smith, the boat-steerer who was saved, and Peter Kidder, were going to re-take the ship. This
appeared highly improbable, but they were summoned to attend a council at which Comstock presided,
and asked if they had entertained any such intentions. They positively denied ever having had
conversation upon the subject. All this took place in the evening. The next morning the parties
were summoned, and a jury of two men called. Humphreys under a guard of six men, armed with
muskets, was arraigned, and Smith and Kidder, seated upon a chest near him. The prisoner was
asked a few questions touching his intentions, which he answered but low and indistinctly.
The trial, if it may be so called, had progressed thus far, when Comstock made a speech in
the following words. "It appears that William Humphreys has been accused guilty, of a treacherous
and base act, in loading a pistol for the purpose of shooting Mr. Payne and myself. Having
been tried the jury will now give in their verdict, whether Guilty or Not Guilty. If guilty
he shall be hanged to a studding-sail boom, rigged out eight feet upon the fore-yard, but if
found not guilty, Smith and Kidder, shall be hung upon the aforementioned gallows!" But the
doom of Humphreys had been sealed the night before, and kept secret except from the jury, who
returned a verdict of Guilty.--Preparations were immediately made for his execution! His watch
was taken from him, and he was then taken forward and seated upon the rail, with a cap drawn
over his face, and the rope placed round his neck.

Every man was ordered to take hold of the execution rope, to be ready to run him up when Comstock
should give the signal, by ringing the ship's bell!

He was now asked if he had any thing to say, as he had but fourteen seconds to live! He began
by saying, "little did I think I was born to come to this------;" the bell struck! and he was
immediately swung to the yard-arm! He died without a struggle; and after he had hung a few
minutes, the rope was cut, to let him fall overboard, but getting entangled aloft, the body
was towed some distance along side, when a runner hook,[A] was attached to it, to sink it,
when the rope was again cut and the body disappeared. His chest was now overhauled, and sixteen
dollars in specie found, which he had taken from the Captain's trunk. Thus ended the life of
one of the mutineers, while the blood of innocent victims was scarcely washed from his hands,
much less the guilty stain from his soul.

    [A] A large hook used when hoisting in the blubber.

Feb. 7th. These twenty-four hours commenced with thick squally weather. Middle part clear and
fine weather.--Hove to at 2 A. M., and at 6 made sail, and steered W. by S. At ½ past 8 made
an Island ahead, one of the Kingsmill groupe. Stood in with the land and received a number
of canoes along side, the natives in them however having nothing to sell us but a few beads
of their own manufacture. We saw some cocoanut, and other trees upon the shore, and discovered
many of the natives upon the beach, and some dogs. The principal food of these Islanders is,
a kind of bread fruit, which they pound very fine and mix it with fish.

Feb. 8. Commences squally with fresh breezes from the northward.--Took a departure from Kingsmill
Island; one of the groupe of that name, in Lat. 1° 27' N. and Long. 175° 14' E. In the morning
passed through the channel between Marshall's and Gilbert's Islands; luffed to and despatched
a boat to Marshall's Island, but did not land, as the natives appeared hostile, and those who
swam off to the boat, endeavoured to steal from her. When about to leave, a volley of musketry
was discharged at them, which probably killed or wounded some of them. The boat then gave chase
to a canoe, paddled by two of the natives, which were fired upon when within gunshot, when
they immediately ceased paddling; and on the boat approaching them, discovered that one of
the natives was wounded. In the most supplicating manner they held up a jacket, manufactured
from a kind of flag, and some beads, being all they possessed, giving their inhuman pursuers
to understand, that all should be theirs if they would spare their lives! The wounded native
laid down in the bottom of the boat, and from his convulsed frame and trembling lip, no doubt
remained but that the wound was mortal. The boat then returned on board and we made sail for
the Mulgrave Islands. Here was another sacrifice; an innocent child of nature shot down, merely
to gratify the most wanton and unprovoked cruelty, which could possibly possess the heart of
man. The unpolished savage, a stranger to the more tender sympathies of the human heart, which
are cultivated and enjoyed by civilized nations, nurtures in his bosom a flame of revenge,
which only the blood of those who have injured him, can damp; and when years have rolled away,
this act of cruelty will be remembered by these Islanders, and made the pretext to slaughter
every white man who may fall into their hands.

Feb. 11th. Commenced with strong breezes from the Northward. At ½ past meridian made the land
bearing E. N. E. four leagues distant. Stood in and received a number of canoes along side.
Sent a boat on shore; and brought off a number of women, a large quantity of cocoanuts, and
some fish.--Stood off shore most of the night, and

Feb. 12th, in the morning stood in shore again and landed the women.--We then stood along shore
looking out for an anchorage, and reconnoitering the country, in the hope of finding some spot
suitable for cultivation; but in this we were disappointed, or more properly speaking, they,
the mutineers; for we had no will of our own, while our bosoms were torn with the most conflicting
passions, in which Hope and Despair alternately gained the ascendency.

Feb. 13th. After having stood off all night, we in the morning stood in, and after coasting
the shores of several small Islands, we came to one, low and narrow, where it was determined
the Ship should be anchored. When nearly ready to let go, a man was sent into the chains to
sound, who pronounced twelve fathoms; but at the next cast, could not get bottom. We continued
to stand in, until we got regular sounding, and anchored within five rods of the shore, on
a coral rock bottom, in seven fathoms water. The ship was then moored with a kedge astern,
sails furled, and all hands retired to rest, except an anchor watch.

Feb. 14th, was spent in looking for a landing place. In the morning a boat was sent to the
Eastward, but returned with the information that no good landing place could be found, the
shore being very rocky. At 2 P. M. she was sent in an opposite direction, but returned at night
without having met with better success; when it was determined to land at the place where we
lay; notwithstanding it was very rocky.--Nothing of consequence was done, until

Sunday, 15th Feb. 1824, when all hands were set to work to construct a raft out of the spare
spars, upon which to convey the provisions, &c. on shore.

The laws by which we were now governed had been made by Comstock, soon after the mutiny, and
read as follows:

"That if any one saw a sail and did not report it immediately, he should be put to death! If
any one refused to fight a ship he should be put to death; and the manner of their death, this--They
shall be bound hand and foot and boiled in the try pots, of boiling oil!" Every man was made
to seal and sign this instrument, the seals of the mutineers being black, and the remainder,
blue and white. The raft or stage being completed, it was anchored, so that one end rested
upon the rocks, the other being kept sea-ward by the anchor. During the first day many articles
were brought from the ship in boats, to the raft, and from thence conveyed on shore. Another
raft, however, was made, by laying spars upon two boats, and boards again upon them, which
at high water would float well up on the shore. The following, as near as can be recollected,
were the articles landed from the ship; (and the intention was, when all should have been got
on shore, to haul the ship on shore, or as near it as possible and burn her.) One mainsail,
one foresail, one mizen-topsail, one spanker, one driver, one maintop gallantsail, two lower
studdingsails, two royals, two topmast-studdingsails, two top-gallant-studdingsails, one mizen-staysail,
two mizen-top-gallantsails, one fly-gib, (thrown overboard, being a little torn,) three boat's
sails (new,) three or four casks of bread, eight or ten barrels of flour, forty barrels of
beef and pork, three or more 60 gal. casks of molasses, one and a half barrels of sugar, one
barrel dried apples, one cask vinegar, two casks of rum, one or two barrels domestic coffee,
one keg W. I. coffee, one and a half chests of tea, one barrel of pickles, one do. cranberries,
one box chocolate, one cask of tow-lines, three or more coils of cordage, one coil rattling,
one do. lance warp, ten or fifteen balls spunyarn, one do. worming, one stream cable, one larboard
bower anchor, all the spare spars, every chest of clothing, most of the ship's tools, &c. &c.
The ship by this time was considerably unrigged.

On the following day, Monday 16th February, Payne the second in the mutiny, who was on board
the ship attending to the discharge of articles from her, sent word to Comstock, who with Gilbert
Smith and a number of the crew were on shore, attending to the landing of the raft; "That if
he did not act differently with regard to the plunder, such as making presents to the natives
of the officers' fine clothing, &c. he would do no more, but quit the ship and come on shore."
Comstock had been very liberal to the natives in this way, and his object was, no doubt, to
attach them as much as possible to his person, as it must have been suggested to his guilty
mind, that however he himself might have become a misanthrope, yet there were those around
him, whose souls shuddered at the idea of being forever exiled from their country and friends,
whose hands were yet unstained by blood, but who might yet imbrue them, for the purpose of
escape from lonely exile, and cruel tyranny.

When the foregoing message was received from Payne, Comstock commanded his presence immediately
on shore, and interrogated him, as to what he meant by sending such a message. After considerable
altercation, which took place in the tent, Comstock was heard to say, "I helped to take the
ship, and have navigated her to this place.--I have also done all I could to get the sails
and rigging on shore, and now you may do what you please with her; but if any man wants any
thing of me, I'll take a musket with him!"

"That is what I want," replied Payne, "and am ready!" This was a check upon the murderer, who
had now the offer of becoming a duellist; and he only answered by saying, "I will go on board
once more, and then you may do as you please."

He then went on board, and after destroying the paper upon which were recorded the "Laws,"
returned, went into the tent with Payne, and putting a sword into a scabbard, exclaimed, "this
shall stand by me as long as I live."

We ought not to omit to mention that during the time he was on board the ship, he challenged
the persons there, to fight him, and as he was leaving, exclaimed "I am going to leave you;
Look out for yourselves!"

After obtaining from Payne permission to carry with him a cutlass, a knife, and some hooks
and lines, he took his departure, and as was afterwards ascertained, immediately joined a gang
of natives, and endeavoured to excite them to slay Payne and his companions! At dusk of this
day he passed the tent, accompanied by about 50 of the natives, in a direction of their village,
upwards of a league distant. Payne came on board, and after expressing apprehensions that Comstock
would persuade the natives to kill us all, picked out a number of the crew to go on shore for
the night, and stationed sentinels around the tent, with orders to shoot any one, who should
attempt to approach without giving the countersign. The night, however, passed, without any
one's appearing; but early on the morning of the

17th Feb.; Comstock was discovered at some distance coming towards the tent. It had been before
proposed to Smith by Payne, to shoot him; but poor Smith like ourselves, dare do no other than
remain upon the side of neutrality.

Oliver, whom the reader will recollect as one of the wretches concerned in the mutiny, hurried
on shore, and with Payne and others, made preparations to put him to death. After loading a
number of muskets they stationed themselves in front of the tent, and waited his approach--a
bushy spot of ground intervening, he did not make his appearance until within a short distance
of the tent, which, as soon as he saw, drew his sword and walked quick towards it, in a menacing
manner; but as soon as he saw a number of the muskets levelled at him, he waved his hand, and
cried out, "don't shoot me, don't shoot me! I will not hurt you!" At this moment they fired,
and he fell!--Payne fearing he might pretend to be shot, ran to him with an axe, and nearly
severed his head from his body! There were four muskets fired at him, but only two balls took
effect, one entered his right breast, and passed out near the back bone, the other through
his head.

Thus ended the life, of perhaps as cruel, blood-thirsty, and vindictive a being as ever bore
the form of humanity.

All hands were now called to attend his burial, which was conducted in the same inconsistent
manner which had marked the proceedings of the actors in this tragedy. While some were engaged
in sewing the body in a piece of canvas, others were employed in digging a grave in the sand,
adjacent to the place of his decease, which, by order of Payne, was made five feet deep. Every
article attached to him, including his cutlass, was buried with him, except his watch; and
the ceremonies consisted in reading a chapter from the bible over him, and firing a musket!

Only twenty-two days had elapsed after the perpetration of the massacre on board the ship,
when with all his sins upon his head, he was hurried into eternity!

No duty was done during the remainder of the day, except the selection by Payne, of six men,
to go on board the ship and take charge of her, under the command of Smith; who had communicated
his intentions to a number of running away with the ship. We think we cannot do better than
to give an account of their escape in the words of Smith himself. It may be well to remark,
that Payne had ordered the two binacle compasses to be brought on shore, they being the only
ones remaining on board, except a hanging compass suspended in the cabin. Secreting one of
the binacle compasses, he took the hanging compass on shore, and the exchange was not discovered.

"At 7 P. M. we began to make preparations for our escape with the ship.--I went below to prepare
some weapons for our defence should we be attacked by Payne, while the others, as silently
as possible, were employed in clearing the running rigging, for every thing was in the utmost
confusion. Having found one musket, three bayonets, and some whale lances, they were laid handy,
to prevent the ship being boarded. A handsaw well greased was laid upon the windlass to saw
off the cable, and the only remaining hatchet on board, was placed by the mizen mast, to cut
the stern moorings when the ship should have sufficiently swung off. Taking one man with me,
we went upon the fore-top-sail-yard, loosed the sail and turned out the reefs, while two others
were loosing the main-top-sail and main sail. I will not insult the reader's good sense, by
assuring him, that this was a duty, upon the success of which seemed to hang our very existence.
By this time the moon was rising, which rendered it dangerous to delay, for those who had formed
a resolution to swim on board, and accompany us. The bunts of the sails being yet confined
aloft, by their respective gaskets, I sent a man on the fore-yard and another upon the fore-top-sail-yard,
with orders to let fall, when I should give the word; one man being at the helm, and two others
at the fore tack.

"It was now half past nine o'clock, when I took the handsaw, and in less than two minutes the
cable was off!--The ship payed off very quick, and when her head was off the land, there being
a breeze from that quarter, the hawser was cut and all the sail we could make upon the ship
immediately set, a fine fair wind blowing. A raft of iron hoops, which was towing along side,
was cut adrift, and we congratulated each other upon our fortunate escape; for even with a
vast extent of ocean to traverse, hope excited in our bosoms a belief that we should again
embrace our friends, and our joy was heightened by the reflection, that we might be the means
of rescuing the innocents left behind, and having the guilty punished."

After a long and boisterous passage the ship arrived at Valparaiso, when she was taken possession
of by the American Consul, Michael Hogan, Esq. and the persons on board were put in irons on
board a French frigate, there being no American man-of-war in port. Their names were, Gilbert
Smith, George Comstock, Stephen Kidder, Joseph Thomas, Peter C. Kidder, and Anthony Henson.

Subsequently they were all examined before the U. S. Consul; and with the following, an examination
of Gilbert Smith, we shall commence another chapter.

CHAPTER III.

    U. S. Consulate,
        Valparaiso, 15th June, 1824.

Gilbert Smith examined on oath, touching the mutiny and murder on board the whale ship Globe,
of Nantucket, Massachusetts, in the Pacific Ocean.

Question. Who were the Captain and mates of the ship Globe?

Ans. Thomas Worth, Captain; William Beetle, first mate; John Lumbert, second mate; Nathaniel
Fisher, third mate.

Q. Where was you born?

A. In the town of Edgarton, State of Massachusetts.

Q. Did you sail from thence in the ship Globe of Nantucket, 20th Dec. 1822, and in what capacity?

A. Yes; as a boat-steerer.

Q. Was there any thing like mutiny on board the ship during her passage to the Sandwich Islands?

A. No.

Q. How many men belonged to the ship on sailing from Nantucket?

A. Twenty-one in all.

Q. Did any run away at the Sandwich Islands?

A. Six men ran away, and one was discharged.

Q. How many men were shipped in their places?

A. John Oliver, of Shields, England; Silas Payne, of Rhode Island; Thomas Lilliston, of Virginia;
William Steward, of Philadelphia, (black;) Anthony Henson, of Barnstable; and a native of the
Sandwich Islands.

Q. On what day or night did this murderous mutiny take place?

A. On Sunday night the 26th of January, this year; in the morning of that day there was a great
disturbance, in consequence of Joseph Thomas having insulted the Captain, for which he was
whipped by the Captain, with the end of the main buntline. The part of the crew not stationed
stood in the hatchway during the punishment.

Q. Did any thing happen in consequence, during that day?

