"When your adversaries reflect how far you are gone in this vice, they are tempted to talk
as if we owed our success, not to your courage or conduct, but to those veteran troops you
command, who are able to conquer under any general, with so many brave and experienced officers
to lead them. Besides, we know the consequences your avarice hath often occasioned. The soldier
hath been starving for bread, surrounded with plenty, and in an enemy's country, but all under
safeguards and contributions; which if you had sometimes pleased to have exchanged for provisions,
might at the expense of a few talents in a campaign, have so endeared you to the army, that
they would have desired you to lead them to the utmost limits of Asia. But you rather chose
to confine your conquests within the fruitful country of Mesopotamia, where plenty of money
might be raised. How far that fatal greediness of gold may have influenced you, in breaking
off the treaty[12] with the old Parthian King Orodes,[13] you best can tell; your enemies charge
you with it, your friends offer nothing material in your defence; and all agree, there is nothing
so pernicious, which the extremes of avarice may not be able to inspire.

"The moment you quit this vice, you will be a truly great man; and still there will imperfections
enough remain to convince us, you are not a god. Farewell."

Perhaps a letter of this nature, sent to so reasonable a man as Crassus, might have put him
upon Examining into himself, and correcting that little sordid appetite, so utterly inconsistent
with all pretences to a hero. A youth in the heat of blood may plead with some shew of reason,
that he is not able to subdue his lusts; An ambitious man may use the same arguments for his
love of power, or perhaps other arguments to justify it. But, excess of avarice hath neither
of these pleas to offer; it is not to be justified, and cannot pretend temptation for excuse:
Whence can the temptation come? Reason disclaims it altogether, and it cannot be said to lodge
in the blood, or the animal spirits.

[Footnote 1: No. 27 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: "It is of the greatest importance in the discharge of every office of trade, or
of the public treasury, that the least suspicion of avarice should be avoided." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: The Commissioners for examining the public accounts reported to the House of Commons
(December 21st, 1711) that the Duke of Marlborough had received from Sir Solomon de Medina
(army contractor for bread) and his predecessor, during the years 1702 to 1711, a sum of £63,319
3s. 7d. "In this report was contained the deposition of Sir Solomon Medina, charging the Duke
of Marlborough and Adam Cardonell, his secretary, of various peculations, with regard to the
contracts for bread and bread-wagons for the army in Flanders." The Duke admitted the fact
in a letter to the Queen, dated November 10th, 1711, but said that the whole sum had "been
constantly employed for the service of the public, in keeping secret correspondence, and in
getting intelligence of the enemy's motions and designs" (Macpherson's "Great Britain," ii.
512; Tindal's "History," iv. 232; and "Journals of House of Commons," xvii. 16). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: See the remarks in No. 39, post, p.250. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: Sallust, "Catiline," 5. "Greedy of what was not his own, lavish of what was."
Catiline was extravagant and profligate, and quite unscrupulous in the pursuit of his many
pleasures. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: A most severe censure on the Duke of Marlborough. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: Commenting on this "The Medley" (No. 20, February 12th, 1711) remarks: "Of all
that ever made it their business to defame, there never was such a bungler sure as my friend.
He writes a letter now to Crassus, as a man marked out for destruction, because that hint was
given him six months ago; and does not seem to know yet that he is still employed, and that
in attacking him, he affronts the Q[uee]n."

Writing to Stella, under date February 18th, Swift says: "Lord Rivers, talking to me the other
day, cursed the paper called 'The Examiner,' for speaking civilly of the Duke of Marlborough:
this I happened to talk of to the Secretary [St. John], who blamed the warmth of that lord,
and some others, and swore, that, if their advice were followed, they would be blown up in
twenty-four hours" (vol. ii., p. 123 of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: To Stella Swift writes somewhat later (March 7th): "Yes, I do read the 'Examiners,'
and they are written very finely as you judge. I do not think they are too severe on the Duke;
they only tax him of avarice, and his avarice has ruined us. You may count upon all things
in them to be true. The author has said, it is not Prior; but perhaps it may be Atterbury"
(vol. ii., p. 133 of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: Wet stockings. [FAULKNER.]]

[Footnote 10: Clodius Albinus, the Roman general, died 197 A.D. The reference here is to the
Earl of Wharton (see No. 27, ante, p. 169). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: T. Pomponius Atticus, the friend and correspondent of Cicero. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: The Treaty of Gertruydenberg (see No. 14, ante, and note on p. 77; see also note
on pp. 201-2 of vol. v. of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 13: Orodes I. (Arsaces XIV.), King of Parthia, defeated Crassus, B.C. 53. [T.S.]]

NUMB. 29.[1]

FROM THURSDAY FEBRUARY 8, TO THURSDAY FEBRUARY 15, 1710-11.

Inultus ut tu riseris Cotyttia?[2]

An Answer to the "Letter to the Examiner."[3]

London, Feb. 15, 1710/11.

Sir,

Though I have wanted leisure to acknowledge the honour of a letter you were pleased to write
to me about six months ago; yet I have been very careful in obeying some of your commands,
and am going on as fast as I can with the rest. I wish you had thought fit to have conveyed
them to me by a more private hand, than that of the printing-house: for though I was pleased
with a pattern of style and spirit which I proposed to imitate, yet I was sorry the world should
be a witness how far I fell short in both.

I am afraid you did not consider what an abundance of work you have cut out for me; neither
am I at all comforted by the promise you are so kind to make, that when I have performed my
task,[4] "D[olbe]n shall blush in his grave among the dead, W[alpo]le among the living, and
even Vol[pon]e shall feel some remorse." How the gentleman in his grave may have kept his countenance,
I cannot inform you, having no acquaintance at all with the sexton; but for the other two,
I take leave to assure you, there have not yet appeared the least signs of blushing or remorse
in either, though some very good opportunities have offered, if they had thought fit to accept
them; so that with your permission, I had rather engage to continue this work till they are
in their graves too, which I am sure will happen much sooner than the other.

You desire I would collect "some of those indignities offered last year to her M[ajest]y."
I am ready to oblige you; and have got a pretty tolerable collection by me, which I am in doubt
whether to publish by itself in a large volume in folio, or scatter them here and there occasionally
in my papers. Though indeed I am sometimes thinking to stifle them altogether; because such
a history will be apt to give foreigners a monstrous opinion of our country. But since it is
your absolute opinion, the world should be informed; I will with the first occasion pick out
a few choice instances, and let them take their chance in the ensuing papers. I have likewise
in my cabinet certain quires of paper filled with facts of corruption, mismanagement, cowardice,
treachery, avarice, ambition, and the like, with an alphabetical table, to save trouble. And
perhaps you will not wonder at the care I take to be so well provided, when you consider the
vast expense I am at: I feed weekly two or three wit-starved writers, who have no other visible
support; besides several others that live upon my offals. In short, I am like a nurse who suckles
twins at one time, and has likewise one or two whelps constantly to draw her breasts.

I must needs confess, (and it is with grief I speak it) that I have been the innocent cause
of a great circulation of dullness: at the same time, I have often wondered how it has come
to pass, that these industrious people, after poring so constantly upon the "Examiner,"[5]
a paper writ with plain sense, and in a tolerable style, have made so little improvement. I
am sure it would have fallen out quite otherwise with me; for, by what I have seen of their
performances (and I am credibly informed they are all of a piece) if I had perused them till
now, I should have been fit for little but to make an advocate in the same cause.

You, Sir, perhaps will wonder, as most others do, what end these angry folks propose, in writing
perpetually against the "Examiner": it is not to beget a better opinion of the late ministry,
or with any hope to convince the world that I am in the wrong in any one fact I relate; they
know all that to be lost labour; and yet their design is important enough: they would fain
provoke me by all sort of methods, within the length of their capacity, to answer their papers;
which would render mine wholly useless to the public; for if it once came to rejoinder and
reply, we should be all upon a level, and then their work would be done.

There is one gentleman indeed, who has written three small pamphlets upon "the Management of
the War," and "the Treaty of Peace:"[6] These I had intended to have bestowed a paper in Examining,
and could easily have made it appear, that whatever he says of truth, relates nothing at all
to the evils we complain of, or controls one syllable of what I have ever advanced. Nobody
that I know of did ever dispute the Duke of M[arlboroug]h's courage, conduct or success, they
have been always unquestionable, and will continue to be so, in spite of the malice of his
enemies, or, which is yet more, the weakness of his advocates. The nation only wished to see
him taken out of ill hands, and put into better. But, what is all this to the conduct of the
late m[i]n[i]stry, the shameful mismanagements in Spain, or the wrong steps in the treaty of
peace, the secret of which will not bear the light, and is consequently by this author very
poorly defended? These and many other things I would have shewn; but upon second thoughts determined
to have done it in a discourse by itself,[7] rather than take up room here, and break into
the design of this paper, from whence I have resolved to banish controversy as much as possible.
But the postscript to his third pamphlet was enough to disgust me from having any dealings
at all with such a writer; unless that part was left to some footman[8] he had picked up among
the boys who follow the camp, whose character it would suit much better than that of the supposed
author.[9] At least, the foul language, the idle impotent menace, and the gross perverting
of an innocent expression in the 4th "Examiner,"[10] joined to that respect I shall ever have
for the function of a divine, would incline me to believe so. But when he turns off his footman,
and disclaims that postscript, I will tear it out, and see how far the rest deserves to be
considered.

But, Sir, I labour under a much greater difficulty, upon which I should be glad to hear your
advice. I am worried on one side by the Whigs for being too severe, and by the Tories on the
other for being too gentle. I have formerly hinted a complaint of this; but having lately received
two peculiar letters, among many others, I thought nothing could better represent my condition,
or the opinion which the warm men of both sides have of my conduct, than to send you a transcript
of each. The former is exactly in these words.

"To the 'Examiner.'

"MR. EXAMINER,

"By your continual reflecting upon the conduct of the late m[i]n[i]stry, and by your encomiums
on the present, it is as clear as the sun at noon- day, that your are a Jesuit or Nonjuror,
employed by the friends of the Pretender, to endeavour to introduce Popery, and slavery, and
arbitrary power, and to infringe the sacred Act of Toleration of Dissenters. Now, Sir, since
the most ingenious authors who write weekly against you, are not able to teach you better manners,
I would have you to know, that those great and excellent men, as low as you think them at present,
do not want friends that will take the first proper occasion to cut your throat, as all such
enemies to moderation ought to be served. It is well you have cleared another person[11] from
being author of your cursed libels; though d--mme, perhaps after all, that may be a bamboozle
too. However I hope we shall soon ferret you out. Therefore I advise you as a friend, to let
fall your pen, and retire betimes; for our patience is now at an end. It is enough to lose
our power and employments, without setting the whole nation against us. Consider three years
is the life of a party; and d--mme, every dog has his day, and it will be our turn next; therefore
take warning, and learn to sleep in a whole skin, or whenever we are uppermost, by G--d you
shall find no mercy."

The other letter was in the following terms.

"To the 'Examiner.'

"SIR,,

"I am a country member, and constantly send a dozen of your papers down to my electors. I have
read them all, but I confess not with the satisfaction I expected. It is plain you know a great
deal more than you write; why will you not let us have it all out? We are told, that the Qu[een]
has been a long time treated with insolence by those she has most obliged; Pray, Sir, let us
have a few good stories upon that head. We have been cheated of several millions; why will
you not set a mark on the knaves who are guilty, and shew us what ways they took to rob the
public at such a rate? Inform us how we came to be disappointed of peace about two years ago:
In short, turn the whole mystery of iniquity inside-out, that every body may have a view of
it. But above all, explain to us, what was at the bottom of that same impeachment: I am sure
I never liked it; for at that very time, a dissenting preacher in our neighbourhood, came often
to see our parson; it could be for no good, for he would walk about the barns and stables,
and desire to look into the church, as who should say, These will shortly be mine; and we all
believed he was then contriving some alterations against he got into possession: And I shall
never forget, that a Whig justice offered me then very high for my bishop's lease. I must be
so bold to tell you, Sir, that you are too favourable: I am sure, there was no living in quiet
for us while they were in the saddle. I was turned out of the commission, and called a Jacobite,
though it cost me a thousand pound in joining with the Prince of Orange at the Revolution.
The discoveries I would have you make, are of some facts for which they ought to be hanged;
not that I value their heads, but I would see them exposed, which may be done upon the owners'
shoulders, as well as upon a pole, &c."

These, Sir, are the sentiments of a whole party on one side, and of considerable numbers on
the other: however, taking the medium between these extremes, I think to go on as I have hitherto
done, though I am sensible my paper would be more popular, if I did not lean too much to the
favourable side. For nothing delights the people more than to see their oppressors humbled,
and all their actions, painted with proper colours, set out in open view. Exactos tyrannos
densum humeris bibit aure vulgus.[12]

But as for the Whigs, I am in some doubt whether this mighty concern they shew for the honour
of the late ministry, may not be affected, at least whether their masters will thank them for
their zeal in such a cause. It is I think, a known story of a gentleman who fought another
for calling him "son of a whore;" but the lady desired her son to make no more quarrels upon
that subject, because it was true. For pray, Sir; does it not look like a jest, that such a
pernicious crew, after draining our wealth, and discovering the most destructive designs against
our Church and State, instead of thanking fortune that they are got off safe in their persons
and plunder, should hire these bullies of the pen to defend their reputations? I remember I
thought it the hardest case in the world, when a poor acquaintance of mine, having fallen among
sharpers, where he lost all his money, and then complaining he was cheated, got a good beating
into the bargain, for offering to affront gentlemen. I believe the only reason why these purloiners
of the public, cause such a clutter to be made about their reputations, is to prevent inquisitions,
that might tend towards making them refund: like those women they call shoplifters, who when
they are challenged for their thefts, appear to be mighty angry and affronted, for fear of
being searched.

I will dismiss you, Sir, when I have taken notice of one particular. Perhaps you may have observed
in the tolerated factious papers of the week, that the E[arl] of R[ochester][13] is frequently
reflected on for having been ecclesiastical commissioner and lord treasurer, in the reign of
the late King James. The fact is true; and it will not be denied to his immortal honour, that
because he could not comply with the measures then taking, he resigned both those employments;
of which the latter was immediately supplied by a commission, composed of two popish lords
and the present E[ar]l of G[o]d[o]l[phi]n.[14]

[Footnote 1: No. 28 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Horace, "Epodes," xvii. 56.

  "Safely shalt thou Cotytto's rites
    Divulge?"--J. DUNCOMBE.

   [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: "A Letter to the Examiner. Printed in the year, 1710," appeared shortly after
the issue of the second number of "The Examiner." It was attributed to St. John. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: The writer of the "Letter" invited the "Examiner" to "paint ... the present state
of the war abroad, and expose to public view those principles upon which, of late, it has been
carried on ... Collect some few of the indignities which have been this year offered to her
Majesty.... When this is done, D----n shall blush in his grave among the dead, W----le among
the living, and even Vol----e shall feel some remorse." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: "The Medley" treated "The Examiner" with scant courtesy, and never failed to cast
ridicule on its work. In No. 21 (February 19th, 1711) the writer says: "No man of common sense
ever thought any body wrote the paper but Abel Roper, or some of his allies, there being not
one quality in 'The Examiner' which Abel has not eminently distinguished himself by since he
set up for a political writer. 'Tis true, Abel is the more modest of the two, and it never
entered into his head to say, as my friend does of his paper, 'Tis writ with plain sense and
in a tolerable style.'" In No. 23 (March 5th) he says: "There is indeed a great resemblance
between his brother Abel and himself; and I find a great dispute among the party, to which
of them to give the preference. They are both news writers, as they utter things which no body
ever heard of but from their papers."

Abel Roper conducted the Tory paper called "The Post Boy." (See note on p. 290 of vol. v. of
present edition.) [T.S.] ]

[Footnote 6: Two of these pamphlets were already referred to in a postscript to No. 24 of "The
Examiner" (see note, p. 151). The third was "The Negotiations for a Treaty of Peace, in 1709.
Consider'd, In a Third Letter to a Tory-Member. Part the First." Dated December 22nd, 1710,
The "Fourth Letter" was dated January 10th, 1710/11. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: It may be that Swift's intention was carried out in two pamphlets, one entitled,
"An Examination of the Management of the War. In a Letter to My Lord * * *," published March
3rd, 1710/1; and the other styled, "An Examination of the Third and Fourth Letters to a Tory
Member, relating to the Negociations for a Treaty of Peace in 1709. In a Second Letter to My
Lord * * *" [With a Postscript to the Medley's Footman], published March 15th of the same year.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: The postscript to "An Examination of the Third and Fourth Letters" mentions a
pamphlet, "An Answer to the Examination of the Management of the War," by the Medley's Footman.
"The Medley," No. 21 (February 19th), remarks: "He could also prove there were wrong steps
in the Treaty of Peace, the Allies would have all; but he won't do it, because he is treated
like a footman." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: I. e. Dr. Francis Hare. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: Dr. Hare, in the postscript to his third pamphlet, said: "The Examiner is extremely
mistaken, if he thinks I shall enter the lists with so prostitute a writer, who can neither
speak truth, nor knows when he hears it." He calls the writer "a mercenary scribbler," and
speaks of his paper as "weekly libels." He then quotes an expression from the fourth number
(published before Swift undertook "The Examiner"), and concludes by saying that he had met
more than his   match in the ingenious writer of "The Medley," even were he much abler than he is.

The fourth "Examiner" had printed a "Letter from the Country," in which the following passage
occurs: "Can any wise people think it possible, that the Crown should be so mad as to choose
ministers, who would not support public credit? ... This is such a wildness as is never ...
to be met with in the Roman story; except in a devouring Sejanus at home, or an ambitious Catiline
at the head of a mercenary army."

The writer of "An Examination of the Third and Fourth Letters," says: "The words indeed are
in the paper quoted, that is, 'The Examiner,' No. 4, but the application is certainly the proper
thought of the author of the postscript" (p. 28). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: I. e. Prior. See No. 27, p. 168. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: Horace, "Odes," II. xiii. 31-2.
                    "Tyrants slain,
In thicker crowds the shadowy throng
Drink deeper down the martial song."--P. FRANCIS.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 13: Laurence Hyde, Earl of Rochester, was lord treasurer from 168 4/5 to 168 6/7,
when five commissioners were appointed: Lord Belasyse, Lord Godolphin, Lord Dover, Sir John
Ernle (chancellor of the exchequer), and Sir Stephen Foxe. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: "The Medley," No. 22 (February 26th, 1711) remarks on this: "He might have said
with as much truth, 'twas supplied by my Lord G---- and two Protestant knights, Sir Stephen
Fox and Sir John Ernle." [T.S.]]

NUMB. 30.[1]

FROM THURSDAY FEBRUARY 15, TO THURSDAY FEBRUARY 22, 1710-11.

Laus summa in fortunae bonis, non extulisse se in potestate, non fuisse insolentem in pecuniâ,
non se praetulisse aliis propter abundantiam fortunae.[2]

I am conscious to myself that I write this paper with no other intention but that of doing
good: I never received injury from the late ministry, nor advantage from the present, further
than in common with every good subject. There were among the former one or two, who must be
allowed to have possessed very valuable qualities; but proceeding by a system of politics,
which our constitution could not suffer; and discovering a contempt of all religion, but especially
of that which hath been so happily established among us ever since the Reformation, they seem
to have been justly suspected of no very good inclinations to either.

It is possible, that a man may speculatively prefer the constitution of another country, or
an Utopia of his own, before that of the nation where he is born and lives; yet from considering
the dangers of innovation, the corruptions of mankind, and the frequent impossibility of reducing
ideas to practice, he may join heartily in preserving the present order of things, and be a
true friend to the government already settled. So in religion; a man may perhaps have little
or none of it at heart; yet if he conceals his opinions, if he endeavours to make no proselytes,
advances no impious tenets in writing or discourse: if, according to the common atheistical
notion, he believes religion to be only a contrivance of politicians for keeping the vulgar
in awe, and that the present model is better adjusted than any other to so useful an end: though
the condition of such a man as to his own future state be very deplorable; yet Providence,
which often works good out of evil, can make even such a man an instrument for contributing
toward the preservation of the Church.

On the other side, I take a state to be truly in danger, both as to its religion and government,
when a set of ambitious politicians, bred up in a hatred to the constitution, and a contempt
for all religion, are forced upon exerting these qualities in order to keep or increase their
power, by widening their bottom, and taking in (like Mahomet) some principles from every party,
that is any way discontented at the present faith and settlement; which was manifestly our
case. Upon this occasion I remember to have asked some considerable Whigs, whether it did not
bring a disreputation upon their body, to have the whole herd of Presbyterians, Independents,
Atheists, Anabaptists, Deists, Quakers and Socinians, openly and universally listed under their
banners? They answered, that all this was absolutely necessary, in order to make a balance
against the Tories, and all little enough: for indeed, it was as much as they could possibly
do, though assisted with the absolute power of disposing every employment; while the bulk of
English gentry kept firm to their old principles in Church and State.

But notwithstanding whatever I have hitherto said, I am informed, several among the Whigs continue
still so refractory, that they will hardly allow the heads of their party to have entertained
any designs of ruining the constitution, or that they would have endeavoured it, if they had
continued in power, I beg their pardon if I have discovered a secret; but who could imagine
they ever intended it should be one, after those overt acts with which they thought fit to
conclude their farce? But perhaps they now find it convenient to deny vigorously, that the
question may remain; "Why was the old ministry changed?" which they urge on without ceasing,
as if no occasion in the least had been given, but that all were owing to the insinuations
of crafty men, practising upon the weakness of an easy pr[inc]e. I shall therefore offer among
a hundred, one reason for this change, which I think would justify any monarch that ever reigned,
for the like proceeding.

It is notorious enough, how highly princes have been blamed in the histories of all countries,
particularly of our own; upon the account of minions; who have been ever justly odious to the
people, for their insolence and avarice, and engrossing the favour of their masters. Whoever
has been the least conversant in the English story cannot but have heard of Gaveston[3], the
Spencers[4], and the Earl of Oxford[5]; who by the excess and abuse of their power, cost the
princes they served, or rather governed, their crowns and lives. However, in the case of minions,
it must at least be acknowledged that the prince is pleased and happy, though his subjects
be aggrieved; and he has the plea of friendship to excuse him, which is a disposition of generous
minds. Besides, a wise minion, though he be haughty to others, is humble and insinuating to
his master, and cultivates his favour by obedience and respect. But our misfortune has been
a great deal worse: we have suffered for some years under the oppression, the avarice and insolence
of those, for whom the Qu[ee]n had neither esteem nor friendship; who rather seemed to snatch
their own dues, than receive the favour of their sovereign, and were so far from returning
respect, that they forgot common good manners. They imposed on their prince, by urging the
necessity of affairs of their own creating: they first raised difficulties, and then offered
them as arguments to keep themselves in power. They united themselves against nature and principle,
to a party they had always abhorred, and which was now content to come in upon any terms, leaving
them and their creatures in full possession of the court. Then they urged the formidable strength
of that party, and the dangers which must follow by disobliging of it. So that it seems almost
a miracle, how a prince, thus besieged on all sides, could alone have courage and prudence
enough to extricate herself.

And indeed there is a point of history relating to this matter, which well deserves to be considered.
When her M[ajest]y came to the crown, she took into favour and employment, several persons
who were esteemed the best friends of the old constitution; among whom none were reckoned further
gone in the high church principles (as they are usually called) than two or three, who had
at that time most credit, and ever since, till within these few months, possessed all power
at court. So that the first umbrage given to the Whigs, and the pretences for clamouring against
France and the Pretender, were derived from them. And I believe nothing appeared then more
unlikely, than that such different opinions should ever incorporate; that party having upon
former occasions treated those very persons with enmity enough. But some l[or]ds then about
court, and in the Qu[een]'s good graces, not able to endure those growing impositions upon
the prince and people, presumed to interpose, and were consequently soon removed and disgraced:
However, when a most exorbitant grant was proposed,[6] antecedent to any visible merit, it
miscarried in Parliament, for want of being seconded by those who had most credit in the House,
and who having always opposed the like excesses in a former reign, thought it their duty to
do so still, to shew the world that the dislike was not against persons but things. But this
was to cross the oligarchy in the tenderest point, a point which outweighed all considerations
of duty and gratitude to their prince, or regard to the constitution. And therefore after having
in several private meetings concerted measures with their old enemies, and granted as well
as received conditions, they began to change their style and their countenance, and to put
it as a maxim in the mouths of their emissaries, that England must be saved by the Whigs. This
unnatural league was afterwards cultivated by another incident; I mean the Act of Security,[7]
and the consequences of it, which every body knows; when (to use the words of my correspondent)[8]
"the sovereign authority was parcelled out among a faction, and made the purchase of indemnity
for an offending M[iniste]r:" Thus the union of the two kingdoms improved that between the
ministry and the j[u]nto, which was afterwards cemented by their mutual danger in that storm
they so narrowly escaped about three years ago;[9] but however was not quite perfected till
the Prince's death;[10] and then they went lovingly on together, both satisfied with their
several shares, at full liberty to gratify their predominant inclinations; the first, their
avarice and ambition; the other, their models of innovation in Church and State.

Therefore, whoever thinks fit to revive that baffled question, "Why was the late ministry changed?"
may receive the following answer; That it was become necessary by the insolence and avarice
of some about the Qu[een], who in order to perpetuate their tyranny had made a monstrous alliance
with those who profess principles destructive to our religion and government: If this will
not suffice, let him make an abstract of all the abuses I have mentioned in my former papers,
and view them together; after which if he still remains unsatisfied, let him suspend his opinion
a few weeks longer. Though after all, I think the question as trifling as that of the Papists,
when they ask us, "where was our religion before Luther?" And indeed, the ministry was changed
for the same reason that religion was reformed, because a thousand corruptions had crept into
the discipline and doctrine of the state, by the pride, the avarice, the fraud, and the ambition
of those who administered to us in secular affairs.

I heard myself censured the other day in a coffee-house, for seeming to glance in the letter
to Crassus,[11] against a great man, who is still in employment, and likely to continue so.
What if I had really intended that such an application should be given it? I cannot perceive
how I could be justly blamed for so gentle a reproof. If I saw a handsome young fellow going
to a ball at court with a great smut upon his face, could he take it ill in me to point out
the place, and desire him with abundance of good words to pull out his handkerchief and wipe
it off; or bring him to a glass, where he might plainly see it with his own eyes? Does any
man think I shall suffer my pen to inveigh against vices, only because they are charged upon
persons who are no longer in power? Every body knows, that certain vices are more or less pernicious,
according to the stations of those who possess them. For example, lewdness and intemperance
are not of so bad consequences in a town rake as a divine. Cowardice in a lawyer is more supportable
than in an officer of the army. If I should find fault with an admiral because he wanted politeness,
or an alderman for not understanding Greek; that indeed would be to go out of my way, for an
occasion of quarrelling; but excessive avarice in a g[enera]l, is I think the greatest defect
he can be liable to, next to those of courage and conduct, and may be attended with the most
ruinous consequences, as it was in Crassus, who to that vice alone owed the destruction of
himself and his army.[12] It is the same thing in praising men's excellencies, which are more
or less valuable, as the person you commend has occasion to employ them. A man may perhaps
mean honestly, yet if he be not able to spell, he shall never have my vote for a secretary:
Another may have wit and learning in a post where honesty, with plain common sense, are of
much more use: You may praise a soldier for his skill at chess, because it is said to be a
military game, and the emblem of drawing up an army; but this to a tr[easure]r would be no
more a compliment, than if you called him a gamester or a jockey.[13]

P.S. I received a letter relating to Mr. Greenshields; the person who sent it may know, that
I will say something to it in the next paper.

[Footnote 1: No. 29 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: "Tractanda in laudationibus etiam haec sunt naturae et fortunae bona, in quibus
est summa laus: non extulisse," etc.--CICERO, De Oratore ii. 84.

"These blessings of nature and fortune fall within the province of panegyric, the highest strain
of which is, that a man possessed power without pride, riches without insolence, and the fullness
of fortune without the arrogance of greatness."--W. GUTHRIE. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: Piers Gaveston, Earl of Cornwall, the favourite of Edward II. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: Hugh le Despencer, Earl of Winchester, and his son of the same name, both favourites
of Edward II., and both hanged in 1326. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: Robert de Vere, Earl of Oxford, favourite of Richard II. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: See No. 17, ante, and note, p. 95. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: The Bill of Security passed the Scottish Parliament in 1703, but was refused the
Royal Assent. It provided for the separation of the Crowns of England and Scotland unless security
was given to the latter for full religious and commercial independence. It was again passed
in 1704. (See also note in vol. v., p. 336 of present edition.) [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: The writer of the "Letter" does not ascribe this result to the Act of Security,
but to the Queen raising some of her servants to the highest degree of power who were unable
"to associate with, men of honester principles than themselves," which led to "subjection to
the will of an arbitrary junto and to the caprice of an insolent woman." [T. S.]]

[Footnote 9: The Duke of Marlborough and Lord Godolphin threatened to resign in February, 1707/8,
unless Harley was dismissed. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: Prince George died October 28th, 1708. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: "The Medley," No. 20 (February 12th) was largely taken up with remarks on this
letter, which appeared in "The Examiner," No. 28. See passage there quoted in the note, p.
177. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: Crassus was defeated by Orodes, King of Parthia, through the treachery of Ariamnes.
After Crassus was beheaded Orodes caused molten gold to be poured into his mouth. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 13: Godolphin. See No. 27, ante, p. 172. [T.S.]]

NUMB. 31.[1]

FROM THURSDAY FEBRUARY 22, TO THURSDAY MARCH 1, 1710-11.

Quae enim domus tam stabilis, quae tam firma civitas est, quae non odiis atque discidiis funditus
possit everti?[2]

If we examine what societies of men are in closest union among themselves, we shall find them
either to be those who are engaged in some evil design, or who labour under one common misfortune:
Thus the troops of banditti in several countries abroad, the knots of highwaymen in our own
nation, the several tribes of sharpers, thieves and pickpockets, with many others, are so firmly
knit together, that nothing is more difficult than to break or dissolve their several gangs.
So likewise those who are fellow-sufferers under any misfortune, whether it be in reality or
opinion, are usually contracted into a very strict union; as we may observe in the Papists
throughout this kingdom, under those real difficulties which are justly put on them; and in
the several schisms of Presbyterians, and other sects, under that grievous persecution of the
modern kind, called want of power. And the reason why such confederacies, are kept so sacred
and inviolable, is very plain, because in each of those cases I have mentioned, the whole body
is moved by one common spirit, in pursuit of one general end, and the interest of individuals
is not crossed by each other, or by the whole.

Now, both these motives are joined to unite the high-flying Whigs at present: they have been
always engaged in an evil design, and of late they are faster rivetted by that terrible calamity,
the loss of power. So that whatever designs a mischievous crew of dark confederates may possibly
entertain, who will stop at no means to compass them, may be justly apprehended from these.

On the other side, those who wish well to the public, and would gladly contribute to its service,
are apt to differ in their opinions about the methods of promoting it, and when their party
flourishes, are sometimes envious at those in power, ready to overvalue their own merit, and
be impatient till it is rewarded by the measure they have prescribed for themselves. There
is a further topic of contention, which a ruling party is apt to fall into, in relation to
retrospections, and enquiry into past miscarriages; wherein some are thought too warm and zealous;
others too cool and remiss; while in the meantime these divisions are industriously fomented
by the discarded faction; which though it be an old practice, hath been much improved in the
schools of the Jesuits, who when they despaired of perverting this nation to popery, by arguments
or plots against the state, sent their emissaries to subdivide us into schisms.[3] And this
expedient is now with great propriety taken up by our men of incensed moderation, because they
suppose themselves able to attack the strongest of our subdivisions, and so subdue us one after
another. Nothing better resembles this proceeding, than that famous combat between the Horatii
and Curiatii,[4] where two of the former being killed, the third, who remained entire and untouched,
was able to kill his three wounded adversaries, after he had divided them by a stratagem. I
well know with how tender a hand all this should be touched; yet at the same time I think it
my duty to warn the friends as well as expose the enemies of the public weal, and to begin
preaching up union upon the first suspicion that any steps are made to disturb it.

But the two chief subjects of discontent, which, in most great changes, in the management of
public affairs, are apt to breed differences among those who are in possession, are what I
have just now mentioned; a desire of punishing the corruptions of former managers; and the
rewarding merit, among those who have been any way instrumental or consenting to the change.
The first of these is a point so nice, that I shall purposely waive it; but the latter I take
to fall properly within my district: By merit I here understand that value which every man
puts upon his own deservings from the public. And I believe there could not be a more difficult
employment found out, than that of paymaster general to this sort of merit; or a more noisy,
crowded place, than a court of judicature, erected to settle and adjust every man's claim upon
that article. I imagine, if this had fallen into the fancy of the ancient poets, they would
have dressed it up after their manner into an agreeable fiction, and given us a genealogy and
description of merit, perhaps not very different from that which follows.

A Poetical Genealogy and Description of MERIT.

That true Merit, was the son of Virtue and Honour; but that there was likewise a spurious child
who usurped the name, and whose parents were Vanity and Impudence. That, at a distance, there
was a great resemblance between them, and they were often mistaken for each other. That the
bastard issue had a loud shrill voice, which was perpetually employed in cravings and complaints;
while the other never spoke louder than a whisper, and was often so bashful that he could not
speak at all. That in all great assemblies, the false Merit would step before the true, and
stand just in his way; was constantly at court, or great men's levees, or whispering in some
minister's ear. That the more you fed him, the more hungry and importunate he grew. That he
often passed for the true son of Virtue and Honour, and the genuine for an impostor. That he
was born distorted and a dwarf, but by force of art appeared of a handsome shape, and taller
than the usual size; and that none but those who were wise and good, as well as vigilant, could
discover his littleness or deformity. That the true Merit had been often forced to the indignity
of applying to the false, for his credit with those in power, and to keep himself from starving.
That he filled the antechambers with a crew of his dependants and creatures, such as projectors,
schematises, occasional converts to a party, prostitute flatterers, starveling writers, buffoons,
shallow politicians, empty orators, and the like, who all owned him for their patron, and grew
discontented if they were not immediately fed.

This metaphorical description of false Merit, is, I doubt, calculated for most countries in
Christendom; and as to our own, I believe it may be said with a sufficient reserve of charity,
that we are fully able to reward every man among us according to his real deservings. And I
think I may add, without suspicion of flattery, that never any prince had a ministry with a
better judgment to distinguish between false and real merit, than that which is now at the
helm; or whose inclination as well as interest it is to encourage the latter. And it ought
to be observed, that those great and excellent persons we see at the head of affairs, are of
the Qu[een]'s own personal voluntary choice; not forced upon her by any insolent, overgrown
favourite; or by the pretended necessity of complying with an unruly faction.

Yet these are the persons whom those scandals to the press, in their daily pamphlets and papers,
openly revile at so ignominious a rate, as I believe was never tolerated before under any government.
For surely no lawful power derived from a prince, should be so far affronted, as to leave those
who are in authority exposed to every scurrilous libeller. Because in this point I make a mighty
difference between those who are in, and those who are out of power; not upon any regard to
their persons, but the stations they are placed in by the sovereign. And if my distinction
be right, I think I might appeal to any man, whether if a stranger were to read the invectives
which are daily published against the present ministry, and the outrageous fury of the authors
against me for censuring the last; he would not conclude the Whigs to be at this time in full
possession of power and favour, and the Tories entirely at mercy? But all this now ceases to
be a wonder, since the Qu[een] herself is no longer spared; witness the libel published some
days ago under the title of "A Letter to Sir J[aco]b B[an]ks,"[5] where the reflections upon
her sacred Majesty are much more plain and direct, than ever the "Examiner" thought fit to
publish against the most obnoxious persons in a m[inistr]y, discarded for endeavouring the
ruin of their prince and country. Caesar indeed threatened to hang the pirates for presuming
to disturb him while he was their prisoner aboard their ship.[6] But it was Caesar who did
so, and he did it to a crew of public robbers; and it became the greatness of his spirit, for
he lived to execute what he had threatened. Had they been in his power, and sent such a message,
it could be imputed to nothing but the extremes of impudence, folly or madness.

I had a letter last week relating to Mr. Greenshields[7] an Episcopal clergyman of Scotland,
and the writer seems to be a gentleman of that part of Britain. I remember formerly to have
read a printed account of Mr. Greenshields's case, who has been prosecuted and silenced for
no other reason beside reading divine service, after the manner of the Church of England, to
his own congregation, who desired it: though, as the gentleman who writes to me says, there
is no law in Scotland against those meetings; and he adds, that the sentence pronounced against
Mr. Greenshields, "will soon be affirmed, if some care be not taken to prevent it." I am altogether
uninformed in the particulars of this case, and besides to treat it justly, would not come
within the compass of my paper; therefore I could wish the gentleman would undertake it in
a discourse by itself; and I should be glad he would inform the public in one fact, whether
Episcopal assemblies are freely allowed in Scotland? It is notorious that abundance of their
clergy fled from thence some years ago into England and Ireland, as from a persecution; but
it was alleged by their enemies, that they refused to take the oaths to the government, which
however none of them scrupled when they came among us. It is somewhat extraordinary to see
our Whigs and fanatics keep such a stir about the sacred Act of Toleration, while their brethren
will not allow a connivance in so near a neighbourhood; especially if what the gentleman insists
on in his letter be true, that nine parts in ten of the nobility and gentry, and two in three
of the commons, be Episcopal; of which one argument he offers, is the present choice of their
representatives in both Houses, though opposed to the utmost by the preachings, threatenings
and anathemas of the kirk. Such usage to a majority, may, as he thinks, be of dangerous consequence;
and I entirely agree with him. If these be the principles of high kirk, God preserve at least
the southern parts from their tyranny!

[Footnote 1: No. 30 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Cicero, "De Amicitiâ," vii. "For what family is so firmly rooted, what state so
strong, as not to be liable to complete overthrow from hatred and strife."--G.H. Wells. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: Refers to the October Club. See Swift's "Memoirs Relating to that Change," etc.
(vol. v., pp. 385-6 of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: The contest is the subject of one of Macaulay's "Lays." Three brothers named Horatius
fought with three named Curiatius, and the fight resulted in Publius Horatius being the sole
survivor. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: In his letter to the Earl of Peterborough, dated February, 1710/1 (Scott, vol.
xv., pp. 422-3), Swift speaks more favourably of this pamphlet. His remarks to the Earl throw
considerable light on Swift's own position as a Tory: "The piece is shrewdly written; and,
in my opinion, not to be answered, otherwise than by disclaiming that sort of passive obedience
which the Tories are charged with.

The pamphlet was written by a Mr. Benson in reply to Sir Jacob Banks, who, as member for Minehead,
had, in 1709-10 presented an address from his constituents in which it was pretty broadly avowed
that subjects must obey their monarch, since he was responsible to God alone. The writer of
the letter institutes a clever parallel between England and Sweden. See note to No. 14, ante,
and No. 34, post, pp. 75 and 216. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: Julius Caesar was captured by pirates off the coast of Miletus (c. 75 B.C.) and
held to ransom. The threat of crucifixion he then held out to his captors he afterwards fulfilled.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: The Rev. James Greenshields was imprisoned (September 15th, 1709) for conducting
in Edinburgh the service according to the English Prayer Book. He appealed to the House of
Lords, and the judgment against him was reversed, March 1st. 1710/1 ("Journals of House of
Lords," xix). [T.S.]]

NUMB. 32.[1]

FROM THURSDAY MARCH 1, TO THURSDAY MARCH 8, 1710-11.

  ----Garrit aniles
  Ex re fabellas.[2]

I had last week sent me by an unknown hand, a passage out of Plato,[3] with some hints how
to apply it. That author puts a fable into the mouth of Aristophanes, with an account of the
original of love. That, mankind was at first created with four arms and legs, and all other
parts double to what they are now; till Jupiter, as a punishment for his sins, cleft him in
two with a thunderbolt, since which time we are always looking for our other half; and this
is the cause of love. But Jupiter threatened, that if they did not mend their manners, he would
give them t'other slit, and leave them to hop about in the shape of figures in basso relievo.
The effect of this last threatening, my correspondent imagines, is now come to pass; and that
as the first splitting was the original of love, by inclining us to search for our t'other
half, so the second was the cause of hatred, by prompting us to fly from our other side, and
dividing the same body into two, gave each slice the name of a party.

I approve the fable and application, with this refinement upon it. For parties do not only
split a nation, but every individual among them, leaving each but half their strength, and
wit, and honesty, and good nature; but one eye and ear for their sight and hearing, and equally
lopping the rest of the senses: Where parties are pretty equal in a state, no man can perceive
one bad quality in his own, or good one in his adversaries. Besides, party being a dry disagreeable
subject, it renders conversation insipid or sour, and confines invention. I speak not here
of the leaders, but the insignificant crowd of followers in a party, who have been the instruments
of mixing it in every condition and circumstance of life. As the zealots among the Jews bound
the law about their foreheads, and wrists, and hems of their garments; so the women among us
have got the distinguishing marks of party in their muffs, their fans, and their furbelows.
The Whig ladies put on their patches in a different manner from the Tories.[4] They have made
schisms in the playhouse, and each have their particular sides at the opera: and when a man
changes his party, he must infallibly count upon the loss of his mistress. I asked a gentleman
the other day, how he liked such a lady? but he would not give me his opinion till I had answered
him whether she were a Whig or a Tory. Mr.----[5] since he is known to visit the present m[inist]ry,
and lay some time under a suspicion of writing the "Examiner," is no longer a man of wit; his
very poems have contracted a stupidity many years after they were printed.

Having lately ventured upon a metaphorical genealogy of Merit, I thought it would be proper
to add another of Party, or rather, of Faction, (to avoid mistake) not telling the reader whether
it be my own or a quotation, till I know how it is approved; but whether I read or dreamed
it, the fable is as follows.

"Liberty, the daughter of Oppression, after having brought forth several fair children, as
Riches, Arts, Learning, Trade, and many others, was at last delivered of her youngest daughter,
called Faction; whom Juno, doing the office of the midwife, distorted in its birth, out of
envy to the mother, from whence it derived its peevishness and sickly constitution. However,
as it is often the nature of parents to grow most fond of their youngest and disagreeablest
children, so it happened with Liberty, who doted on this daughter to such a degree, that by
her good will she would never suffer the girl to be out of her sight. As Miss Faction grew
up, she became so termagant and froward, that there was no enduring her any longer in Heaven.
Jupiter gave her warning to be gone; and her mother rather than forsake her, took the whole
family down to earth. She landed at first in Greece, was expelled by degrees through all the
Cities by her daughter's ill-conduct; fled afterwards to Italy, and being banished thence,
took shelter among the Goths, with whom she passed into most parts of Europe; but driven out
every where, she began to lose esteem, and her daughter's faults were imputed to herself. So
that at this time, she has hardly a place in the world to retire to. One would wonder what
strange qualities this daughter must possess, sufficient to blast the influence of so divine
a mother, and the rest of her children: She always affected to keep mean and scandalous company;
valuing nobody, but just as they agreed with her in every capricious opinion she thought fit
to take up; and rigorously exacting compliance, though she changed her sentiments ever so often.
Her great employment was to breed discord among friends and relations, and make up monstrous
alliances between those whose dispositions least resembled each other. Whoever offered to contradict
her, though in the most insignificant trifle, she would be sure to distinguish by some ignominious
appellation, and allow them to have neither honour, wit, beauty, learning, honesty or common
sense. She intruded into all companies at the most unseasonable times, mixed at balls, assemblies,
and other parties of pleasure; haunted every coffee- house and bookseller's shop, and by her
perpetual talking filled all places with disturbance and confusion. She buzzed about the merchant
in the Exchange, the divine in his pulpit, and the shopkeeper behind his counter. Above all,
she frequented public assemblies, where she sat in the shape of an obscene, ominous bird, ready
to prompt her friends as they spoke."

If I understand this fable of Faction right, it ought to be applied to those who set themselves
up against the true interest and constitution of their country; which I wish the undertakers
for the late m[inistr]y would please to take notice of; or tell us by what figure of speech
they pretend to call so great and unforced a majority, with the Qu[een] at the head, by the
name of "the Faction": which is unlike the phrase of the Nonjurors, who dignifying one or two
deprived bishops, and half a score clergymen of the same stamp, with the title of the "Church
of England," exclude all the rest as schismatics; or like the Presbyterians, laying the same
accusation, with equal justice, against the established religion.

And here it may be worth inquiring what are the true characteristics of a faction, or how it
is to be distinguished from that great body of the people who are friends to the constitution?
The heads of a faction, are usually a set of upstarts, or men ruined in their fortunes, whom
some great change in a government, did at first, out of their obscurity produce upon the stage.
They associate themselves with those who dislike the old establishment, religious and civil.
They are full of new schemes in politics and divinity; they have an incurable hatred against
the old nobility, and strengthen their party by dependants raised from the lowest of the people;
they have several ways of working themselves into power; but they are sure to be called when
a corrupt administration wants to be supported, against those who are endeavouring at a reformation;
and they firmly observe that celebrated maxim of preserving power by the same arts it is attained.
They act with the spirit of those who believe their time is but short; and their first care
is to heap up immense riches at the public expense; in which they have two ends, beside that
common one of insatiable avarice; which are, to make themselves necessary, and to keep the
Commonwealth in dependence: Thus they hope to compass their design, which is, instead of fitting
their principles to the constitution, to alter and adjust the constitution to their own pernicious
principles.

It is easy determining by this test, to which side the name of faction most properly belongs.
But however, I will give them any system of law or regal government, from William the Conqueror
to this present time, to try whether they can tally it with their late models; excepting only
that of Cromwell, whom perhaps they will reckon for a monarch.

If the present ministry, and so great a majority in the Parliament and Kingdom, be only a faction,
it must appear by some actions which answers the idea we usually conceive from that word. Have
they abused the prerogatives of the prince, or invaded the rights and liberties of the subject?
Have they offered at any dangerous innovations in Church or State? Have they broached any doctrines
of heresy, rebellion or tyranny? Have any of them treated their sovereign with insolence, engrossed
and sold all her favours, or deceived her by base, gross misrepresentations of her most faithful
servants? These are the arts of a faction, and whoever has practised them, they and their followers
must take up with the name.

It is usually reckoned a Whig principle to appeal to the people; but that is only when they
have been so wise as to poison their understandings beforehand: Will they now stand to this
appeal, and be determined by their vox populi, to which side their title of faction belongs?
And that the people are now left to the natural freedom of their understanding and choice,
I believe our adversaries will hardly deny. They will now refuse this appeal, and it is reasonable
they should; and I will further add, that if our people resembled the old Grecians, there might
be danger in such a trial. A pragmatical orator told a great man at Athens, that whenever the
people were in their rage, they would certainly tear him to pieces; "Yes," says the other,
"and they will do the same to you, whenever they are in their wits." But God be thanked, our
populace is more merciful in their nature, and at present under better direction; and the orators
among us have attempted to confound both prerogative and law, in their sovereign's presence,
and before the highest court of judicature, without any hazard to their persons.

[Footnote 1: No. 31 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Horace, "Satires," II. vi. 77-8. "To club his part in pithy tales."--P. FRANCIS.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: The "Symposium," 189-192. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: See "The Spectator," No. 81 (June 2nd, 1711): "Their patches were placed in those
different situations, as party signals to distinguish friends from foes." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: Matthew Prior. [T.S.]]

NUMB. 33.[1]

FROM THURSDAY MARCH 8, TO THURSDAY MARCH 15, 1710-11.[2]

Non ea est medicina, cum sanae parti corporis scalpellum adhibetur, atque integrae; carnificina
est ista, et crudelitas. Hi medentur Reipublicae qui exsecant pestem aliquam, tanquam strumam
Civitatis.[3]

I am diverted from the general subject of my discourses, to reflect upon an event of a very
extraordinary and surprising nature: A great minister, in high confidence with the Queen, under
whose management the weight of affairs at present is in a great measure supposed to lie; sitting
in council, in a royal palace, with a dozen of the chief officers of the state, is stabbed
at the very board,[4] in the execution of his office, by the hand of a French Papist, then
under examination for high treason. The assassin redoubles his blow, to make sure work; and
concluding the chancellor was dispatched, goes on with the same rage to murder a principal
secretary of state: and that whole noble assembly are forced to rise, and draw their swords
in their own defence, as if a wild beast had been let loose among them.

This fact hath some circumstances of aggravation not to be paralleled by any of the like kind
we meet with in history. Caesar's murder being performed in the Senate, comes nearest to the
case; but that was an affair concerted by great numbers of the chief senators, who were likewise
the actors in it, and not the work of a vile, single ruffian. Harry the Third of France was
stabbed by an enthusiastic friar,[5] whom he suffered to approach his person, while those who
attended him stood at some distance. His successor met the same fate in a coach, where neither
he nor his nobles, in such a confinement, were able to defend themselves. In our own country
we have, I think, but one instance of this sort, which has made any noise, I mean that of Felton,
about fourscore years ago: but he took the opportunity to stab the Duke of Buckingham in passing
through a dark lobby, from one room to another:[6] The blow was neither seen nor heard, and
the murderer might have escaped, if his own concern and horror, as it is usual in such cases,
had not betrayed him. Besides, that act of Felton will admit of some extenuation, from the
motives he is said to have had: but this attempt of Guiscard seems to have outdone them all
in every heightening circumstance, except the difference of persons between a king and a great
minister: for I give no allowance at all to the difference of success (which however is yet
uncertain and depending) nor think it the least alleviation to the crime, whatever it may be
to the punishment.

I am sensible, it is ill arguing from particulars to generals, and that we ought not to charge
upon a nation the crimes of a few desperate villains it is so unfortunate to produce: Yet at
the same time it must be avowed, that the French have for these last centuries, been somewhat
too liberal of their daggers, upon the persons of their greatest men; such as the Admiral de
Coligny,[7] the Dukes of Guise,[8] father and son, and the two kings I last mentioned. I have
sometimes wondered how a people, whose genius seems wholly turned to singing and dancing, and
prating, to vanity and impertinence; who lay so much weight upon modes and gestures; whose
essentialities are generally so very superficial; who are usually so serious upon trifles,
and so trifling upon what is serious, have been capable of committing such solid villanies;
more suitable to the gravity of a Spaniard, or silence and thoughtfulness of an Italian: unless
it be, that in a nation naturally so full of themselves, and of so restless imaginations, when
any of them happen to be of a morose and gloomy constitution, that huddle of confused thoughts,
for want of evaporating, usually terminates in rage or despair. D'Avila[9] observes, that Jacques
Clément was a sort of buffoon, whom the rest of the friars used to make sport with: but at
last, giving his folly a serious turn, it ended in enthusiasm, and qualified him for that desperate
act of murdering his king.

But in the Marquis de Guiscard there seems to have been a complication of ingredients for such
an attempt: He had committed several enormities in France, was extremely prodigal and vicious;
of a dark melancholy complexion, and cloudy countenance, such as in vulgar physiognomy is called
an ill look. For the rest, his talents were very mean, having a sort of inferior cunning, but
very small abilities; so that a great man of the late m[inist]ry, by whom he was invited over,[10]
and with much discretion raised at first step from a profligate popish priest to a lieutenant-general,
and colonel of a regiment of horse, was forced at last to drop him for shame.[11]

Had such an accident happened[12] under that m[inis]try, and to so considerable a member of
it, they would have immediately charged it upon the whole body of those they are pleased to
call "the faction." This would have been styled a high-church principle; the clergy would have
been accused as promoters and abettors of the fact; com[mittee]s would have been sent to promise
the criminal his life provided they might have liberty to direct and dictate his confession:
and a black list would have been printed of all those who had been ever seen in the murderer's
company. But the present men in power hate and despise all such detestable arts, which they
might now turn upon their adversaries with much more plausibility, than ever these did their
honourable negotiations with Gregg.[13]

And here it may be worth observing how unanimous a concurrence there is between some persons
once in great power, and a French Papist; both agreeing in the great end of taking away Mr.
Harley's life, though differing in their methods: the first proceeding by subornation, the
other by violence; wherein Guiscard seems to have the advantage, as aiming no further than
his life; while the others designed to destroy at once both that and his reputation. The malice
of both against this gentleman seems to have risen from the same cause, his discovering designs
against the government. It was Mr. Harley who detected the treasonable correspondence of Gregg,
and secured him betimes; when a certain great man who shall be nameless, had, out of the depth
of his politics, sent him a caution to make his escape; which would certainly have fixed the
appearance of guilt[14] upon Mr. Harley: but when that was prevented, they would have enticed
the condemned criminal with promise of a pardon, to write and sign an accusation against the
secretary. But to use Gregg's own expression, "His death was nothing near so ignominious, as
would have been such a life that must be saved by prostituting his conscience." The same gentleman
lies now stabbed by his other enemy, a Popish spy, whose treason he has discovered. God preserve
the rest of her Majesty's ministers from such Protestants, and from such Papists!

I shall take occasion to hint at some particularities in this surprising fact, for the sake
of those at distance, or who may not be thoroughly informed.[15] The murderer confessed in
Newgate, that his chief design was against Mr. Secretary St. John, who happened to change seats
with Mr. Harley, for more convenience of examining the criminal:[16] and being asked what provoked
him to stab the chancellor? he said, that not being able to come at the secretary, as he intended,
it was some satisfaction to murder the person whom he thought Mr. St. John loved best.[17]

And here, if Mr. Harley has still any enemies left, whom his blood spilt in the public service
cannot reconcile, I hope they will at least admire his magnanimity, which is a quality esteemed
even in an enemy: and I think there are few greater instances of it to be found in story. After
the wound was given, he was observed neither to change his countenance, nor discover any concern
or disorder in his speech: he rose up, and walked along the room while he was able, with the
greatest tranquillity, during the midst of the confusion. When the surgeon came, he took him
aside, and desired he would inform him freely whether the wound were mortal, because in that
case, he said, he had some affairs to settle, relating to his family. The blade of the penknife,
broken by the violence of the blow against a rib, within a quarter of an inch of the handle,
was dropt out (I know not whether from the wound, or his clothes) as the surgeon was going
to dress him; he ordered it to be taken up, and wiping it himself, gave it some body to keep,
saying, he thought "it now properly belonging to him." He shewed no sort of resentment, or
spoke one violent word against Guiscard, but appeared all the while the least concerned of
any in the company--a state of mind, which in such an exigency, nothing but innocence can give,
and is truly worthy of a Christian philosopher.

If there be really so great a difference in principle between the high-flying Whigs, and the
friends of France, I cannot but repeat the question, how come they to join in the destruction
of the same man? Can his death be possibly for the interest of both? or have they both the
same quarrel against him, that he is perpetually discovering and preventing the treacherous
designs of our enemies? However it be, this great minister may now say with St. Paul, that
he hath been "in perils by his own countrymen, and in perils by strangers."

In the midst of so melancholy a subject, I cannot but congratulate with our own country, that
such a savage monster as the Marquis de Guiscard, is none of her production; a wretch perhaps
more detestable in his own nature, than even this barbarous act has been yet able to represent
him to the world. For there are good reasons to believe, from several circumstances, that he
had intentions of a deeper dye, than those he happened to execute;[18] I mean such as every
good subject must tremble to think on. He hath of late been frequently seen going up the back
stairs at court, and walking alone in an outer room adjoining to her Ma[jest]y's bed-chamber.
He has often and earnestly pressed for some time to have access to the Qu[een], even since
his correspondence with France; and he has now given such a proof of his disposition, as leaves
it easy to guess what was before in his thoughts, and what he was capable of attempting.

It is humbly to be hoped, that the legislature[19] will interpose on so extraordinary an occasion
as this, and direct a punishment[20] some way proportionable to so execrable a crime.

  Et quicunque tuum violavit vulnere corpus,
  Morte luat merita----[21]

[Footnote 1: No. 32 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: To this number the writer of "The Political State of Great Britain" made a pretty
tart reply. In the issue for April, 1711, pp. 315-320 he says: "One of the Tory writers, shall
I call him? or rather libellers--one who presumptuously sets up for an Examiner--who, in order,
as he fondly expects, to make his court to some men in power, with equal insolence and malice,
makes it his weekly business to slander the moderate party; who, without the least provocation,
brandishes his virulent pen against the best men ... instances in the murders of Caesar, Henry
III. and Henry IV. of France, and of the Duke of Buckingham; and having extenuated the last,
'from the motives Felton is said to have had,' he concludes," etc. The writer further goes
on to say: "As to the imputation of villanous assassinations, which the Examiner charges so
home on the French nation, I am heartily sorry he has given them so fair an opportunity to
retort the unfair and unjust argument from particulars to generals. For, without mentioning
Felton, whose crime this writer has endeavoured to extenuate, no foreign records can afford
a greater number of murders, parricides, and, to use the Examiner's expression, solid villanies,
than our English history." Swift retorted on this writer in No. 42, post, pp. 276, 277. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: Cicero, "Pro Sestio," 65. "But that is not a remedy when the knife is applied
to some sound and healthy part of the body; that is the act of an executioner and mere inhumanity.
Those are the men who really apply healing remedies to the republic, who cut out some pestilence
as if it were a wen on the person of the state."--C.D. YONGE. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: This refers to the attempted assassination of Harley and St. John by the Marquis
de Guiscard. See Swift's "Memoirs Relating to that Change," etc. (vol. v., pp. 387-9 of present
edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: Henri III. was assassinated by Jacques Clément, a Dominican friar, August 1st,
1589. Henri IV. was assassinated by François Ravaillac, May 14th, 1610. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: George Villiers, fourth Duke of Buckingham, was stabbed by Lieut. John Felton,
August 23rd, 1628. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: Admiral de Coligny was assassinated August 23rd, 1572. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: Francois de Lorraine, Due de Guise, was shot in 1563. His son and successor (Henri
le Balafré) was killed December 23rd, 1588. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: Davila was the author of "Historia delle Guerre Civili di Francia" (c. 1630).
He was assassinated in 1631. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: "The first thing I would beg of this libeller," asks "The Medley" (No. 25, March
19th, 1711), "is to make out what he affirms of his being 'invited over.' If he would but prove
that one particular, I would forgive him all his lies past and yet to come."

Of course. Swift's extreme phrase of "invited over" referred to the fact that Guiscard had
a Whig commission in the army. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: Antoine de Guiscard, at one time Abbé de la Bourlie, was born in 1658. For misconduct
he was compelled, in 1703, to forsake his benefice and his country, and he undertook the cause
of the Protestant Camisards in the Cevennes, in their insurrection against Louis XIV. It is
known that he had been envoy to Turin, and had received a pension from Holland. On taking refuge
in England he obtained a pension from the government, and by means of the influence of the
Duke of Ormonde, who was his brother's friend, became a frequenter in fashionable circles.
The death, however, of his friend Count Briançon seems to have deprived him of means. He fell
into bad ways, became poor, and solicited a pension from the Queen, through St. John whose
acquaintance he had made. A pension of £500 was granted him; but this sum Harley reduced. Afraid
that even this means of a livelihood would be taken from him he opened a treasonable correspondence
with one Moreau, a Parisian banker. The rest of the story of this poor wretch's life may be
gathered from the excellent account of the Harley-Guiscard incident given by W. Sichel in his
"Bolingbroke and his Times" (pp. 308-313).

N. Luttrell has several entries in his Diary relating to Guiscard and the attempted assassination
of Harley, and there is a long account of him in Boyer's "Political State" (vol. i., pp. 275-314).
See also Portland MS., vol. iv., Wentworth Papers, and Swift's "Journal to Stella," and "Some
Remarks," etc. (vol. v. of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: "Had such an accident ... against the secretary." The writer of "A Letter to
the Seven Lords" (1711) quotes this passage, and remarks that "The Examiner" "intended seriously
to charge you all, with subornation, in order to proceed to murder." See also Swift's "Some
Remarks," etc. (vol. v., pp. 29-53 of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 13: See note on p. 263. Also note on p. 30 of vol. v. of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: William Gregg declared in his last confession that Mr. Harley "was not privy
to my writing to France, directly nor indirectly," and he thanked God for touching his "conscience
so powerfully ... as to prevent my prostituting the same to save my life."--"William Gregg's
Paper," "Published by Authority," 1708. Gregg told the Rev. Paul Lorrain "that he was profferred
his life, and a great reward, if he would accuse his master" (F. Hoffman's "Secret Transactions,"
1711, p. 8). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 15: Swift furnished Mrs. Manley with hints for her pamphlet entitled, "A True Narrative
Of what pass'd at the Examination Of the Marquis De Guiscard," 1711. See note on p. 41 of vol.
v. of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 16: "The matter was thus represented in the weekly paper called 'The Examiner'; which
Mr. St. John perused before it was printed, but made no alteration in that passage." Swift's
"Memoirs Relating to that Change," etc. (vol v., p. 389 of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 17: Guiscard could hardly have been aware of St. John's true sentiments towards Harley.
In 1717 Bolingbroke, writing in his "Letter to Sir William Windham," says: "I abhorred Oxford
to that degree, that I could not bear to be joined with him in any case" (edit. 1753, p. 94).
And yet, when it was feared that Harley might die from his wound, St. John remarked to Swift
that "he was but an ill dissembler" and Harley's life was "absolutely necessary." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 18: "It was thought he had a design against the Queen's person, for he had tried
by all the ways that he could contrive to be admitted to speak with her in private." (BURNET'S
"Own Times," ii., 566). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 19: An Act to make an Attempt on the Life of a Privy Councillor in the Execution
of his Office to be Felony without Benefit of Clergy (9 Ann. c. 21). This Act, which indemnified
all those who had caused Guiscard's death, was recommended in a Royal Message, March 14th,
introduced April 5th, passed the House of Commons, April  19th, and received the Royal Assent,
May 16th, 1711. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 20: Writing to Stella, under date March 15th, Swift says: "I am sorry he [Guiscard]
is dying; for they had found out a way to hang him. He certainly had an intention to murder
the Queen." Two days later he says: "The coroner's inquest have found that he was killed by
bruises received from a messenger, so to clear the cabinet counsellors from whom he received
his wounds." (Vol. ii., p. 139 of present edition.) [T.S.]]

[Footnote 21: "He who profaned thy body by a wound Must pay the penalty of death." [T.S.]]

NUMB. 34.[1]

FROM THURSDAY MARCH 15, TO THURSDAY MARCH 22, 1710-11.

De Libertate retinenda, qua certe nihil est dulcius, tibi assentior.[2]

The apologies of the ancient Fathers are reckoned to have been the most useful parts of their
writings, and to have done greatest service to the Christian religion, because they removed
those misrepresentations which had done it most injury. The methods these writers took, was
openly and freely to discover every point of their faith, to detect the falsehood of their
accusers, and to charge nothing upon their adversaries but what they were sure to make good.
This example has been ill followed of later times; the Papists since the Reformation using
all arts to palliate the absurdities of their tenets, and loading the Reformers with a thousand
calumnies; the consequence of which has been only a more various, wide, and inveterate separation.
It is the same thing in civil schisms: a Whig forms an image of a Tory, just after the thing
he most abhors, and that image serves to represent the whole body.

I am not sensible of any material difference there is between those who call themselves the
Old Whigs, and a great majority of the present Tories; at least by all I could ever find, from
examining several persons of each denomination. But it must be confessed that the present body
of Whigs, as they now constitute that party, is a very odd mixture of mankind, being forced
to enlarge their bottom by taking in every heterodox professor either in religion or government,
whose opinions they were obliged to encourage for fear of lessening their number; while the
bulk of the landed men and people were entirely of the old sentiments. However, they still
pretended a due regard to the monarchy and the Church, even at the time when they were making
the largest steps towards the ruin of both: but not being able to wipe off the many accusations
laid to their charge, they endeavoured, by throwing of scandal, to make the Tories appear blacker
than themselves, that so the people might join with them, as the smaller evil of the two.

But among all the reproaches which the Whigs have flung upon their adversaries, there is none
hath done them more service than that of passive obedience, as they represent it, with the
consequences of non-resistance, arbitrary power, indefeasible right, tyranny, popery, and what
not? There is no accusation which has passed with more plausibility than this, nor any that
is supported with less justice. In order therefore to undeceive those who have been misled
by false representations, I thought it would be no improper undertaking to set this matter
in a fair light, which I think has not yet been done. A Whig asks whether you hold passive
obedience? you affirm it: he then immediately cries out, "You are a Jacobite, a friend of France
and the Pretender;" because he makes you answerable for the definition he has formed of that
term, however different it be from what you understand. I will therefore give two descriptions
of passive obedience; the first as it is falsely charged by the Whigs; the other as it is really
professed by the Tories, at least by nineteen in twenty of all I ever conversed with.

Passive Obedience as charged by the Whigs.

The doctrine of passive obedience is to believe that a king, even in a limited monarchy, holding
his power only from God, is only answerable to Him. That such a king is above all law, that
the cruellest tyrant must be submitted to in all things; and if his commands be ever so unlawful,
you must neither fly nor resist, nor use any other weapons than prayers and tears. Though he
should force your wife or daughter, murder your children before your face, or cut off five
hundred heads in a morning for his diversion, you are still to wish him a long prosperous reign,
and to be patient under all his cruelties, with the same resignation as under a plague or a
famine; because to resist him would be to resist God in the person of His vicegerent. If a
king of England should go through the streets of London, in order to murder every man he met,
passive obedience commands them to submit. All laws made to limit him signify nothing, though
passed by his own consent, if he thinks fit to break them. God will indeed call him to a severe
account, but the whole people, united to a man, cannot presume to hold his hands, or offer
him the least active disobedience. The people were certainly created for him, and not he for
the people. His next heir, though worse than what I have described, though a fool or a madman,
has a divine undefeasible right to succeed him, which no law can disannul; nay though he should
kill his father upon the throne, he is immediately king to all intents and purposes, the possession
of the crown wiping off all stains. But whosoever sits on the throne without this title, though
never so peaceably, and by consent of former kings and parliaments, is an usurper, while there
is any where in the world another person who hath a nearer hereditary right, and the whole
kingdom lies under mortal sin till that heir be restored; because he has a divine title which
no human law can defeat.

This and a great deal more hath, in a thousand papers[3] and pamphlets, been laid to that doctrine
of passive obedience, which the Whigs are pleased to charge upon us. This is what they perpetually
are instilling into the people to believe, as the undoubted principles by which the present
ministry, and a great majority in Parliament, do at this time proceed. This is what they accuse
the clergy of delivering from the pulpits, and of preaching up as doctrines absolutely necessary
to salvation. And whoever affirms in general, that passive obedience is due to the supreme
power, he is presently loaden by our candid adversaries with such consequences as these. Let
us therefore see what this doctrine is, when stripped of such misrepresentations, by describing
it as really taught and practised by the Tories, and then it will appear what grounds our adversaries
have to accuse us upon this article.

Passive Obedience, as professed and practised by the Tories.

They think that in every government, whether monarchy or republic, there is placed a supreme,
absolute, unlimited power, to which passive obedience is due. That wherever is entrusted the
power of making laws, that power is without all bounds, can repeal or enact at pleasure whatever
laws it thinks fit, and justly demands universal obedience and non-resistance. That among us,
as every body knows, this power is lodged in the king or queen, together with the lords and
commons of the kingdom; and therefore all decrees whatsoever, made by that power, are to be
actively or passively obeyed. That the administration or executive part of this power is in
England solely entrusted with the prince, who in administering those laws, ought to be no more
resisted than the legislative power itself. But they do not conceive the same absolute passive
obedience to be due to a limited prince's commands, when they are directly contrary to the
laws he has consented to, and sworn to maintain. The crown may be sued as well as a private
person; and if an arbitrary king of England should send his officers to seize my lands or goods
against law, I can lawfully resist them. The ministers by whom he acts are liable to prosecution
and impeachment, though his own person be sacred. But if he interposes his royal authority
to support their insolence, I see no remedy, till it grows a general grievance, or till the
body of the people have reason to apprehend it will be so; after which it becomes a case of
necessity, and then I suppose a free people may assert their own rights, yet without any violation
to the person or lawful power of the prince. But although the Tories allow all this, and did
justify it by the share they had in the Revolution, yet they see no reason for entering upon
so ungrateful a subject, or raising controversies upon it, as if we were in daily apprehensions
of tyranny, under the reign of so excellent a princess, and while we have so many laws[4] of
late years made to limit the prerogative; when according to the judgment of those who know
our constitution best, things rather seem to lean to the other extreme, which is equally to
be avoided. As to the succession; the Tories think an hereditary right to be the best in its
own nature, and most agreeable to our old constitution; yet at the same time they allow it
to be defeasible by Act of Parliament, and so is Magna Charta too, if the legislature thinks
fit; which is a truth so manifest, that no man who understands the nature of government, can
be in doubt concerning it.

These I take to be the sentiments of a great majority among the Tories, with respect to passive
obedience: and if the Whigs insist, from the writings or common talk of warm and ignorant men,
to form a judgment of the whole body, according to the first account I have here given, I will
engage to produce as many of their side, who are utterly against passive obedience even to
the legislature; who will assert the last resort of power to be in the people, against those
whom they have chosen and trusted as their representatives, with the prince at the head; and
who will put wild improbable cases to shew the reasonableness and necessity of resisting the
legislative power, in such imaginary junctures. Than which however nothing can be more idle;
for I dare undertake in any system of government, either speculative or practic, that was ever
yet in the world, from Plato's "Republic" to Harrington's "Oceana,"[5] to put such difficulties
as cannot be answered.

All the other calumnies raised by the Whigs may be as easily wiped off; and I have charity
to wish they could as fully answer the just accusations we have against them. Dodwell, Hicks,
and Lesley,[6] are gravely quoted, to prove that the Tories design to bring in the Pretender;
and if I should quote them to prove that the same thing is intended by the Whigs, it would
be full as reasonable, since I am sure they have at least as much to do with Nonjurors as we.
But our objections against the Whigs are built upon their constant practice for many years,
whereof I have produced a hundred instances, against any single one of which no answer hath
yet been attempted, though I have been curious enough to look into all the papers I could meet
with that are writ against the "Examiner"; such a task as I hope no man thinks I would undergo
for any other end, but that of finding an opportunity to own and rectify my mistakes; as I
would be ready to do upon call of the meanest adversary. Upon which occasion, I shall take
leave to add a few words.

I flattered myself last Thursday, from the nature of my subject, and the inoffensive manner
I handled it, that I should have one week's respite from those merciless pens, whose severity
will some time break my heart; but I am deceived, and find them more violent than ever. They
charge me with two lies and a blunder. The first lie is a truth, that Guiscard was invited
over:[7] but it is of no consequence; I do not tax it as a fault; such sort of men have often
been serviceable: I only blamed the indiscretion of raising a profligate abbot, at the first
step, to a lieutenant-general and colonel of a regiment of horse, without staying some reasonable
time, as is usual in such cases, till he had given some proofs of his fidelity, as well as
of that interest and credit he pretended to have in his country: But that is said to be another
lie, for he was a Papist, and could not have a regiment. However this other lie is a truth
too; for a regiment he had, and paid by us, to his agent Monsieur Le Bas, for his use. The
third is a blunder, that I say Guiscard's design was against Mr. Secretary St. John, and yet
my reasonings upon it, are, as if it were personal against Mr. Harley. But I say no such thing,
and my reasonings are just; I relate only what Guiscard said in Newgate, because it was a particularity
the reader might be curious to know (and accordingly it lies in a paragraph by itself, after
my reflections)[8] but I never meant to be answerable for what Guiscard said, or thought it
of weight enough for me to draw conclusions from thence, when I had the Address of both Houses
to direct me better; where it is expressly said,[9] "That Mr. Harley's fidelity to her Majesty,
and zeal for her service, have drawn upon him the hatred of all the abettors of Popery and
faction."[10] This is what I believe, and what I shall stick to.

But alas, these are not the passages which have raised so much fury against me. One or two
mistakes in facts of no importance, or a single blunder, would not have provoked them; they
are not so tender of my reputation as a writer. All their outrage is occasioned by those passages
in that paper, which they do not in the least pretend to answer, and with the utmost reluctancy
are forced to mention. They take abundance of pains to clear Guiscard from a design against
Mr. Harley's life, but offer not one argument to clear their other friends, who in the business
of Gregg, were equally guilty of the same design against the same person; whose tongues were
very swords, and whose penknives were axes.

[Footnote 1: No. 33 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Cicero, "Ep. ad Att.," xv. 13. "As to the maintenance of liberty--surely the most
precious thing in the world--I agree with you."--E.S. SHUCKBURGH.]

[Footnote 3: The following pamphlets may be instanced:--"Julian the Apostate," [by S. Johnson],
1682; "[Passive Obedience] A Sermon preached before the ... Lord Mayor," etc., by B. Calamy,
1683; "Passive Obedience Stated and Asserted," by T. Pomfret, 1683; "The Doctrine of Non-Resistance,"
[by E. Bohun], 1689; "History of Passive Obedience," [by A. Seller], 1689; "A Discourse concerning
the Unreasonableness," etc. [by E. Stillingfleet], 1689; "Christianity, a Doctrine of the Cross,"
[by J. Kettlewell], 1691; and "The Measures of Submission," by B. Hoadly, 1706. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: The Act declaring the Rights and Liberties of the Subject (1 Will. and Mary, Sess.
2, c. 2), and the Act for the Further Limitation of the Crown (12 and 13 Will. III. c. 2),
limited the power of the Crown in various respects. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: "The Commonwealth of Oceana," by James Harrington, 1656. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: Henry Dodwell (1641-1711), non-juror, and author of "An Admonitory Discourse ...
Schism" (1704), "Occasional Communion" (1705), etc.

George Hickes (1642-1715), non-juror. Dean of Worcester (1683-91), and author of "The Pretences
of the Prince of Wales Examined, and Rejected" (1701).

Charles Leslie, see No. 16, ante, and note, p. 85. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: "Such, a vile slanderer is the 'Examiner,' who says: 'he was invited over by the
late ministry, preferred to a regiment, and made lieut.-general,' when there is an Act of Parliament
against Papists being so."--"The Medley," No. 25 (March 19th). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: See No. 33, ante, p. 212. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: This is fairly quoted, changing the person. See Swift's remarks in the following
number. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: "A Letter to the Seven Lords" says: "The Examiner knows you are as much intended
by 'faction,' as Guiscard was by 'Popery.'" [T.S.]]

NUMB. 35.[1]

FROM THURSDAY MARCH 22, TO THURSDAY MARCH 29, 1711.

  --Sunt hic etiam sua praemia laudi;
  Sunt lacrimae rerum, et mentem mortalia tangunt.[2]

I begin to be heartily weary of my employment as Examiner; which I wish the m[inist]ry would
consider, with half so much concern as I do, and assign me some other with less pains, and
a larger pension. There may soon be a vacancy, either on the bench, in the revenue, or the
army, and I am equally qualified for each: but this trade of Examining, I apprehend may at
one time or other go near to sour my temper. I did lately propose that some of those ingenious
pens, which are engaged on the other side, might be employed to succeed me, and I undertook
to bring them over for t'other crown; but it was answered, that those gentlemen do much better
service in the stations where they are. It was added, that abundance of abuses yet remained
to be laid open to the world, which I had often promised to do, but was too much diverted by
other subjects that came into my head. On the other side, the advice of some friends, and the
threats of many enemies, have put me upon considering what would become of me if times should
alter. This I have done very maturely, and the result is, that I am in no manner of pain. I
grant, that what I have said upon occasion, concerning the late men in power, may be called
satire by some unthinking people, as long as that faction is down; but if ever they come into
play again, I must give them warning beforehand, that I shall expect to be a favourite, and
that those pretended advocates of theirs, will be pilloried for libellers. For I appeal to
any man, whether I ever charged that party, or its leaders, with one single action or design,
which (if we may judge by their former practices) they will not openly profess, be proud of,
and score up for merit, when they come again to the head of affairs? I said, they were insolent
to the Qu[een]; will they not value themselves upon that, as an argument to prove them bold
assertors of the people's liberty? I affirmed they were against a peace; will they be angry
with me for setting forth the refinements of their politics, in pursuing the only method left
to preserve them in power? I said, they had involved the nation in debts, and engrossed much
of its money; they go beyond me, and boast they have got it all, and the credit too. I have
urged the probability of their intending great alterations in religion and government: if they
destroy both at their next coming, will they not reckon my foretelling it, rather as a panegyric
than an affront? I said,[3] they had formerly a design against Mr. H[arle]y's life: if they
were now in power, would they not immediately cut off his head, and thank me for justifying
the sincerity of their intentions? In short, there is nothing I ever said of those worthy patriots,
which may not be as well excused; therefore, as soon as they resume their places, I positively
design to put in my claim; and, I think, may do it with much better grace, than many of that
party who now make their court to the present m[inist]ry. I know two or three great men, at
whose levees you may daily observe a score of the most forward faces, which every body is ashamed
of, except those that wear them. But I conceive my pretensions will be upon a very different
foot: Let me offer a parallel case. Suppose, King Charles the First had entirely subdued the
rebels at Naseby, and reduced the kingdom to his obedience: whoever had gone about to reason,
from the former conduct of those saints, that if the victory had fallen on their side, they
would have murdered their prince, destroyed monarchy and the Church and made the king's party
compound for their estates as delinquents; would have been called a false, uncharitable libeller,
by those very persons who afterwards gloried in all this, and called it the "work of the Lord,"
when they happened to succeed. I remember there was a person fined and imprisoned for scandalum
magnatum, because he said the Duke of York was a Papist; but when that prince came to be king,
and made open profession of his religion, he had the justice immediately to release his prisoner,
who in his opinion had put a compliment upon him, and not a reproach: and therefore Colonel
Titus,[4] who had warmly asserted the same thing in Parliament, was made a privy-councillor.

By this rule, if that which, for some politic reasons, is now called scandal upon the late
m[inist]ry, proves one day to be only an abstract of such a character as they will assume and
be proud of; I think I may fairly offer my pretensions, and hope for their favour. And I am
the more confirmed in this notion by what I have observed in those papers, that come weekly
out against the "Examiner." The authors are perpetually telling me of my ingratitude to my
masters, that I blunder, and betray the cause; and write with more bitterness against those
that hire me, than against the Whigs. Now I took all this at first only for so many strains
of wit, and pretty paradoxes to divert the reader; but upon further thinking I find they are
serious. I imagined I had complimented the present ministry for their dutiful behaviour to
the Queen; for their love of the old constitution in Church and State; for their generosity
and justice, and for their desire of a speedy, honourable peace: but it seems I am mistaken,
and they reckon all this for satire, because it is directly contrary to the practice of all
those whom they set up to defend, and utterly against all their notions of a good ministry.
Therefore I cannot but think they have reason on their side: for suppose I should write the
character of an honest, a religious, and a learned man; and send the first to Newgate, the
second to the Grecian Coffee-house, and the last to White's;[5] would they not all pass for
satires, and justly enough, among the companies to whom they were sent?

Having therefore employed several papers in such sort of panegyrics, and but very few on what
they understand to be satires; I shall henceforth upon occasion be more liberal of the latter,
of which they are like to have a taste, in the remainder of this present paper.

Among all the advantages which the kingdom hath received by the late change of ministry, the
greatest must be allowed to be the calling of the present Parliament, upon the dissolution
of the last. It is acknowledged, that this excellent assembly hath entirely recovered the honour
of P[arliamen]ts, which had been unhappily prostituted for some years past by the factious
proceedings of an unnatural majority, in concert with a most corrupt administration. It is
plain, by the present choice of members, that the electors of England, when left to themselves,
do rightly understand their true interest. The moderate Whigs begin to be convinced that we
have been all this while in wrong hands, and that things are now as they should be. And as
the present House of Commons is the best representative of the nation that hath ever been summoned
in our memories; so they have taken care in their first session, by that noble Bill of Qualification,[6]
that future Parliaments should be composed of landed men, and our properties lie no more at
mercy of those who have none themselves, or at least only what is transient or imaginary. If
there be any gratitude in posterity, the memory of this assembly will be always celebrated;
if otherwise, at least we, who share in the blessings they derive to us, ought with grateful
hearts to acknowledge them.

I design, in some following papers, to draw up a list (for I can do no more) of the great things
this Parliament hath already performed, the many abuses they have detected; their justice in
deciding elections without regard of party; their cheerfulness and address in raising supplies
for the war, and at the same time providing for the nation's debts; their duty to the Queen,
and their kindness to the Church. In the mean time I cannot forbear mentioning two particulars,
which in my opinion do discover, in some measure, the temper of the present Parliament; and
bear analogy to those passages related by Plutarch, in the lives of certain great men; which,
as himself observes, "Though they be not of actions which make any great noise or figure in
history, yet give more light into the characters of persons, than we could receive from an
account of their most renowned achievements."

Something like this may be observed from two late instances of decency and good nature, in
that illustrious assembly I am speaking of. The first was, when after that inhuman attempt
upon Mr. Harley, they were pleased to vote an Address to the Queen,[7] wherein they express
their utmost detestation of the fact, their high esteem and great concern for that able minister,
and justly impute his misfortunes to that zeal for her Majesty's service, which had "drawn
upon him the hatred of all the abettors of Popery and faction." I dare affirm, that so distinguishing
a mark of honour and good will from such a Parliament, was more acceptable to a person of Mr.
H[arle]y's generous nature, than the most bountiful grant that was ever yet made to a subject;
as her Majesty's answer, filled with gracious expressions in his favour, adds more to his real
glory, than any titles she could bestow. The prince and representatives of the whole kingdom,
join in their concern for so important a life. These are the true rewards of virtue, and this
is the commerce between noble spirits, in a coin which the giver knows where to bestow, and
the receiver how to value, though neither avarice nor ambition would be able to comprehend
its worth.

The other instance I intended to produce of decency and good nature, in the present House of
Commons, relates to their most worthy Speaker;[8] who having unfortunately lost his eldest
son,[9] the assembly, moved with a generous pity for so sensible an affliction, adjourned themselves
for a week, that so good a servant of the public, might have some interval to wipe away a father's
tears: And indeed that gentleman has too just an occasion for his grief, by the death of a
son, who had already acquired so great a reputation for every amiable quality, and who might
have lived to be so great an honour and an ornament to his ancient family.

Before I conclude, I must desire one favour of the reader, that when he thinks it worth his
while to peruse any paper writ against the "Examiner," he will not form his judgment by any
mangled quotation out of it which he finds in such papers, but be so just to read the paragraph
referred to; which I am confident will be found a sufficient answer to all that ever those
papers can object. At least I have seen above fifty of them, and never yet observed one single
quotation transcribed with common candour.

[Footnote: 1 No. 34 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote: 2 Virgil, "Aeneid," i. 461-2. "Even here Has merit its reward. Woe wakens tears,
And mortal sufferings touch the heart of man."--R. KENNEDY. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: See No. 33, ante, p. 211. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: Silas Titus (1622-1704) was the author of "Killing no Murder," published in 1657.
He sat in Parliament successively for Ludgershall, Lostwithiel, Hertfordshire, Huntingdonshire,
and Ludlow, In 1688 he was made a privy councillor. In his notes on Burnet Swift says: "Titus
was the greatest rogue in England" (Burnet's "Own Times," i. 11). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: For the signification of these coffee-houses see the remarks prefixed to the "Tatlers"
in this volume, p. 4. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: An Act for Securing the Freedom of Parliaments (9 Ann. c. 5) provided that English
members should show a land qualification. It was introduced December 13th, 1710, and received
the Royal Assent, February 28th. See also No. 45, post, p. 294. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: The Address to the Queen was presented on March 13th, Swift somewhat strengthens
the language of the address, the original words stating that the Houses had "to our great concern
been informed," etc.; and "we cannot but be most deeply affected to find such an instance of
inveterate malice, against one employed in your Majesty's council," etc. The Queen, in her
reply, referred to "that barbarous attempt on Mr. Harley, whose zeal and fidelity in my service
must appear yet more eminently by that horrid endeavour," etc.--"Journals of House of Lords,"
xix.; "Journals of House of Commons," xvi. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: William Bromley (1664-1732) was Speaker from 1710 till 1713. See note on p. 334
of vol. v. of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: Clobery Bromley (1688-1711) was elected M.P. for Coventry, December, 1710. Only
a few days before his death he had been appointed one of the commissioners to examine the public
accounts. "The House being informed [March 20th] that Clobery Bromley, Esq., son to the Speaker,
died that morning; out of respect to the father, and to give him time, both to perform the
funeral rites, and to indulge his just affliction, they thought fit to adjourn to" the 26th.--"Hist.
and Proc. of House of Commons," iv. 199.

Swift wrote to Stella on the matter under date March 20th, 1711: "The Speaker's eldest son
is just dead of the small pox, and the House is adjourned a week, to give him time to wipe
off his tears. I think it very handsomely done; but I believe one reason is, that they want
Mr. Harley so much" (vol. ii., p. 141 of present edition). [T.S.]]

NUMB. 36.[1]

FROM THURSDAY MARCH 29, TO THURSDAY APRIL 5, 1711.

Nullo suo peccato impediantur, quo minus alterius peccata demonstrare possint.[2]

I have been considering the old constitution of this kingdom, comparing it with the monarchies
and republics whereof we meet so many accounts in ancient story, and with those at present
in most parts of Europe: I have considered our religion, established here by the legislature
soon after the Reformation: I have likewise examined the genius and disposition of the people,
under that reasonable freedom they possess: Then I have turned my reflections upon those two
great divisions of Whig and Tory, (which, some way or other, take in the whole kingdom) with
the principles they both profess, as well as those wherewith they reproach one another. From
all this, I endeavour to determine, from which side her present M[ajest]y may reasonably hope
for most security to her person and government, and to which she ought, in prudence, to trust
the administration of her affairs. If these two rivals were really no more than parties, according
to the common acceptation of the word, I should agree with those politicians who think, a prince
descends from his dignity by putting himself at the head of either; and that his wisest course
is, to keep them in a balance; raising or depressing either as it best suited with his designs.
But when the visible interest of his crown and kingdom lies on one side, and when the other
is but a faction, raised and strengthened by incidents and intrigues, and by deceiving the
people with false representations of things; he ought, in prudence, to take the first opportunity
of opening his subjects' eyes, and declaring himself in favour of those, who are for preserving
the civil and religious rights of the nation, wherewith his own are so interwoven.

This was certainly our case: for I do not take the heads, advocates, and followers of the Whigs,
to make up, strictly speaking, a national party; being patched up of heterogeneous, inconsistent
parts, whom nothing served to unite but the common interest of sharing in the spoil and plunder
of the people; the present dread of their adversaries, by whom they apprehended to be called
to an account, and that general conspiracy, of endeavouring to overturn the Church and State;
which, however, if they could have compassed, they would certainly have fallen out among themselves,
and broke in pieces, as their predecessors did, after they destroyed the monarchy and religion.
For, how could a Whig, who is against all discipline, agree with a Presbyterian, that carries
it higher than the Papists themselves? How could a Socinian adjust his models to either? Or
how could any of these cement with a Deist or Freethinker, when they came to consult upon settling
points of faith? Neither would they have agreed better in their systems of government, where
some would have been for a king, under the limitations of a Duke of Venice; others for a Dutch
republic; a third party for an aristocracy, and most of them all for some new fabric of their
own contriving.

But however, let us consider them as a party, and under those general tenets wherein they agreed,
and which they publicly owned, without charging them with any that they pretend to deny. Then
let us Examine those principles of the Tories, which their adversaries allow them to profess,
and do not pretend to tax them with any actions contrary to those professions: after which,
let the reader judge from which of these two parties a prince hath most to fear; and whether
her M[ajest]y did not consider the ease, the safety and dignity of her person, the security
of her crown, and the transmission of monarchy to her Protestant successors, when she put her
affairs into the present hands.

Suppose the matter were now entire; the Qu[een] to make her choice, and for that end, should
order the principles on both sides to be fairly laid before her. First, I conceive the Whigs
would grant, that they have naturally no very great veneration for crowned heads; that they
allow, the person of the prince may, upon many occasions, be resisted by arms; and that they
do not condemn the war raised against King Charles the First, or own it to be a rebellion,
though they would be thought to blame his murder. They do not think the prerogative to be yet
sufficiently limited, and have therefore taken care (as a particular mark of their veneration
for the illustrious house of Hanover) to clip it closer against next reign; which, consequently,
they would be glad to see done in the present: not to mention, that the majority of them, if
it were put to the vote, would allow, that they prefer a commonwealth before a monarchy. As
to religion; their universal, undisputed maxim is, that it ought to make no distinction at
all among Protestants; and in the word Protestant they include every body who is not a Papist,
and who will, by an oath, give security to the government. Union in discipline and doctrine,
the offensive sin of schism, the notion of a Church and a hierarchy, they laugh at as foppery,
cant and priestcraft. They see no necessity at all that there should be a national faith; and
what we usually call by that name, they only style the "religion of the magistrate."[3] Since
the Dissenters and we agree in the main, why should the difference of a few speculative points,
or modes of dress, incapacitate them from serving their prince and country, in a juncture when
we ought to have all hands up against the common enemy? And why should they be forced to take
the sacrament from our clergy's hands, and in our posture, or indeed why compelled to receive
it at all, when they take an employment which has nothing to do with religion?

These are the notions which most of that party avow, and which they do not endeavour to disguise
or set off with false colours, or complain of being misrepresented about, I have here placed
them on purpose, in the same light which themselves do, in the very apologies they make for
what we accuse them of; and how inviting even these doctrines are, for such a monarch to close
with, as our law, both statute and common, understands a King of England to be, let others
decide. But then, if to these we should add other opinions, which most of their own writers
justify, and which their universal practice has given a sanction to, they are no more than
what a prince might reasonably expect, as the natural consequence of those avowed principles.
For when such persons are at the head of affairs, the low opinion they have of princes, will
certainly tempt them to violate that respect they ought to bear; and at the same time, their
own want of duty to their sovereign is largely made up, by exacting greater submissions to
themselves from their fellow-subjects: it being indisputably true, that the same principle
of pride and ambition makes a man treat his equals with insolence, in the same proportion as
he affronts his superiors; as both Prince and people have sufficiently felt from the late m[inist]ry.

Then from their confessed notions of religion, as above related, I see no reason to wonder,
why they countenanced not only all sorts of Dissenters, but the several gradations of freethinkers
among us (all which were openly enrolled in their party); nor why they were so very averse
from the present established form of worship, which by prescribing obedience to princes from
the topic of conscience, would be sure to thwart all their schemes of innovation.

One thing I might add, as another acknowledged maxim in that party, and in my opinion, as dangerous
to the constitution as any I have mentioned; I mean, that of preferring, on all occasions,
the moneyed interest before the landed; which they were so far from denying, that they would
gravely debate the reasonableness and justice of it; and at the rate they went on, might in
a little time have found a majority of representatives, fitly qualified to lay those heavy
burthens on the rest of the nation, which themselves would not touch with one of their fingers.

However, to deal impartially, there are some motives which might compel a prince, under the
necessity of affairs, to deliver himself over to that party. They were said to possess the
great bulk of cash, and consequently of credit in the nation, and the heads of them had the
reputation of presiding over those societies who have the great direction of both:[4] so that
all applications for loans to the public service, upon any emergency, must be made through
them; and it might prove highly dangerous to disoblige them, because in that case, it was not
to be doubted, that they would be obstinate and malicious, ready to obstruct all affairs, not
only by shutting their own purses, but by endeavouring to sink credit, though with some present
imaginary loss to themselves, only to shew, it was a creature of their own.

From this summary of Whig-principles and dispositions, we find what a prince may reasonably
fear and hope from that party. Let us now very briefly consider, the doctrines of the Tories,
which their adversaries will not dispute. As they prefer a well-regulated monarchy before all
other forms of government; so they think it next to impossible to alter that institution here,
without involving our whole island in blood and desolation. They believe, that the prerogative
of a sovereign ought, at least, to be held as sacred and inviolable as the rights of his people,
if only for this reason, because without a due share of power, he will not be able to protect
them. They think, that by many known laws of this realm, both statute and common, neither the
person, nor lawful authority of the prince, ought, upon any pretence whatsoever, to be resisted
or disobeyed. Their sentiments, in relation to the Church, are known enough, and will not be
controverted, being just the reverse to what I have delivered as the doctrine and practice
of the Whigs upon that article.

But here I must likewise deal impartially too, and add one principle as a characteristic of
the Tories, which has much discouraged some princes from making use of them in affairs. Give
the Whigs but power enough to insult their sovereign, engross his favours to themselves, and
to oppress and plunder their fellow-subjects; they presently grow into good humour and good
language towards the crown; profess they will stand by it with their lives and fortunes; and
whatever rudenesses they may be guilty of in private, yet they assure the world, that there
never was so gracious a monarch. But to the shame of the Tories, it must be confessed, that
nothing of all this hath been ever observed in them; in or out of favour, you see no alteration,
further than a little cheerfulness or cloud in their countenances; the highest employments
can add nothing to their loyalty, but their behaviour to their prince, as well as their expressions
of love and duty, are, in all conditions, exactly the same.

Having thus impartially stated the avowed principles of Whig and Tory; let the reader determine,
as he pleases, to which of these two a wise prince may, with most safety to himself and the
public, trust his person and his affairs; and whether it were rashness or prudence in her M[ajest]y
to make those changes in the ministry, which have been so highly extolled by some, and condemned
by others.

[Footnote 1: No. 35 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: "None are prevented by their own faults from pointing out the faults of another."--H.T.
RILEY. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: See Swift's "Letter Concerning the Sacramental Test" (vol. iv., p. 11 of present
edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: The Bank and the East India Company. The former was so decidedly in the Whig interest,
that the great Doctor Sacheverell, on appearing to give his vote for choosing governors and
directors for the Bank, was very rudely treated. Nor were the ministry successful in an attempt
made about that time to put these great companies under Tory management. [S.] And see No. 25,
ante, pp. 154-5. [T.S.]]

NUMB. 37.[1]

FROM THURSDAY APRIL 5, TO THURSDAY APRIL 12, 1711.

  Tres species tam dissimiles, tria talia texta
  Una dies dedit exitio----[2]

I write this paper for the sake of the Dissenters, whom I take to be the most spreading branch
of the Whig party, that professeth Christianity, and the only one that seems to be zealous
for any particular system of it; the bulk of those we call the Low Church, being generally
indifferent, and undetermined in that point; and the other subdivisions having not yet taken
either the Old or New Testament into their scheme. By the Dissenters therefore, it will easily
be understood, that I mean the Presbyterians, as they include the sects of Anabaptists, Independents,
and others, which have been melted down into them since the Restoration. This sect, in order
to make itself national, having gone so far as to raise a Rebellion, murder their king, destroy
monarchy and the Church, was afterwards broken in pieces by its own divisions; which made way
for the king's return from his exile. However, the zealous among them did still entertain hopes
of recovering the "dominion of grace;" whereof I have read a remarkable passage, in a book
published about the year 1661 and written by one of their own side. As one of the regicides
was going to his execution, a friend asked him, whether he thought the cause would revive?
He answered, "The cause is in the bosom of Christ, and as sure as Christ rose from the dead,
so sure will the cause revive also."[3] And therefore the Nonconformists were strictly watched
and restrained by penal laws, during the reign of King Charles the Second; the court and kingdom
looking on them as a faction, ready to join in any design against the government in Church
or State: And surely this was reasonable enough, while so many continued alive, who had voted,
and fought, and preached against both, and gave no proof that they had changed their principles.
The Nonconformists were then exactly upon the same foot with our Nonjurors now, whom we double
tax, forbid their conventicles, and keep under hatches; without thinking ourselves possessed
with a persecuting spirit, because we know they want nothing but the power to ruin us. This,
in my opinion, should altogether silence the Dissenters' complaints of persecution under King
Charles the Second; or make them shew us wherein they differed, at that time, from what our
Jacobites are now.

Their inclinations to the Church were soon discovered, when King James the Second succeeded
to the crown, with whom they unanimously joined in its ruin, to revenge themselves for that
restraint they had most justly suffered in the foregoing reign; not from the persecuting temper
of the clergy, as their clamours would suggest, but the prudence and caution of the legislature.
The same indulgence against law, was made use of by them and the Papists, and they amicably
employed their power, as in defence of one common interest.

But the Revolution happening soon after, served to wash away the memory of the rebellion; upon
which, the run against Popery, was, no doubt, as just and seasonable, as that of fanaticism,
after the Restoration: and the dread of Popery, being then our latest danger, and consequently
the most fresh upon our spirits, all mouths were open against that; the Dissenters were rewarded
with an indulgence by law; the rebellion and king's murder were now no longer a reproach; the
former was only a civil war, and whoever durst call it a rebellion, was a Jacobite, and friend
to France. This was the more unexpected, because the Revolution being wholly brought about
by Church of England hands, they hoped one good consequence of it, would be the relieving us
from the encroachments of Dissenters, as well as those of Papists, since both had equally confederated
towards our ruin; and therefore, when the crown was new settled, it was hoped at least that
the rest of the constitution would be restored. But this affair took a very different turn;
the Dissenters had just made a shift to save a tide, and joined with the Prince of Orange,
when they found all was desperate with their protector King James. And observing a party, then
forming against the old principles in Church and State, under the name of Whigs and Low-Churchmen,
they listed themselves of it, where they have ever since continued.

It is therefore, upon the foot they now are, that I would apply myself to them, and desire
they would consider the different circumstances at present, from what they were under, when
they began their designs against the Church and monarchy, about seventy years ago. At that
juncture they made up the body of the party, and whosoever joined with them from principles
of revenge, discontent, ambition, or love of change, were all forced to shelter under their
denomination; united heartily in the pretences of a further and purer Reformation in religion,
and of advancing the "great work" (as the cant was then) "that God was about to do in these
nations," received the systems of doctrine and discipline prescribed by the Scots, and readily
took the Covenant;[4] so that there appeared no division among them, till after the common
enemy was subdued.

But now their case is quite otherwise, and I can hardly think it worth being of a party, upon
the terms they have been received of late years; for suppose the whole faction should at length
succeed in their design of destroying the Church; are they so weak to imagine, that the new
modelling of religion, would be put into their hands? Would their brethren, the Low-Churchmen
and Freethinkers, submit to their discipline, their synods or their classes, and divide the
lands of bishops, or deans and chapters, among them? How can they help observing that their
allies, instead of pretending more sanctity than other men, are some of them for levelling
all religion, and the rest for abolishing it? Is it not manifest, that they have been treated
by their confederates, exactly after the same manner, as they were by King James the Second,
made instruments to ruin the Church, not for their sakes, but under a pretended project of
universal freedom in opinion, to advance the dark designs of those who employ them? For, excepting
the anti-monarchical principle, and a few false notions about liberty, I see but little agreement
betwixt them; and even in these, I believe, it would be impossible to contrive a frame of government,
that would please them all, if they had it now in their power to try. But however, to be sure,
the Presbyterian institution would never obtain. For, suppose they should, in imitation of
their predecessors, propose to have no King but our Saviour Christ, the whole clan of Freethinkers
would immediately object, and refuse His authority. Neither would their Low-Church brethren
use them better, as well knowing what enemies they are to that doctrine of unlimited toleration,
wherever they are suffered to preside. So that upon the whole, I do not see, as their present
circumstances stand, where the Dissenters can find better quarter, than from the Church of England.

Besides, I leave it to their consideration, whether, with all their zeal against the Church,
they ought not to shew a little decency, and how far it consists with their reputation, to
act in concert with such confederates. It was reckoned a very infamous proceeding in the present
most Christian king, to assist the Turk against the Emperor: policy, and reasons of state,
were not allowed sufficient excuses, for taking part with an infidel against a believer. It
is one of the Dissenters' quarrels against the Church, that she is not enough reformed from
Popery; yet they boldly entered into a league with Papists and a popish prince, to destroy
her. They profess much sanctity, and object against the wicked lives of some of our members;
yet they have been long, and still continue, in strict combination with libertines and atheists,
to contrive our ruin. What if the Jews should multiply, and become a formidable party among
us? Would the Dissenters join in alliance with them likewise, because they agree already in
some general principles, and because the Jews are allowed to be a "stiffnecked and rebellious
people"?

It is the part of wise men to conceal their passions, when they are not in circumstances of
exerting them to purpose: the arts of getting power, and preserving indulgence, are very different.
For the former, the reasonable hopes of the Dissenters, seem to be at an end; their comrades,
the Whigs and Freethinkers, are just in a condition proper to be forsaken; and the Parliament,
as well as the body of the people, will be deluded no longer. Besides, it sometimes happens
for a cause to be exhausted and worn out, as that of the Whigs in general, seems at present
to be: the nation has had enough of it. It is as vain to hope restoring that decayed interest,
as for a man of sixty to talk of entering on a new scene of life, that is only proper for youth
and vigour. New circumstances and new men must arise, as well as new occasions, which are not
like to happen in our time. So that the Dissenters have no game left, at present, but to secure
their indulgence: in order to which, I will be so bold to offer them some advice.

First, That until some late proceedings are a little forgot, they would take care not to provoke,
by any violence of tongue or pen, so great a majority, as there is now against them, nor keep
up any longer that combination with their broken allies, but disperse themselves, and lie dormant
against some better opportunity: I have shewn, they could have got no advantage if the late
party had prevailed; and they will certainly lose none by its fall, unless through their own
fault. They pretend a mighty veneration for the Queen; let them give proof of it, by quitting
the ruined interest of those who have used her so ill; and by a due respect to the persons
she is pleased to trust at present with her affairs: When they can no longer hope to govern,
when struggling can do them no good, and may possibly hurt them, what is left but to be silent
and passive?

Secondly, Though there be no law (beside that of God Almighty) against occasional conformity,[5]
it would be prudence in the Dissenters to use it as tenderly as they can: for, besides the
infamous hypocrisy of the thing itself, too frequent practice would perhaps make a remedy necessary.
And after all they have said to justify themselves in this point, it still continues hard to
conceive, how those consciences can pretend to be scrupulous, upon which an employment has
more power than the love of unity.

In the last place, I am humbly of opinion, That the Dissenters would do well to drop that lesson
they have learned from their directors, of affecting to be under horrible apprehensions, that
the Tories are in the interests of the Pretender, and would be ready to embrace the first opportunity
of inviting him over. It is with the worst grace in the world, that they offer to join in the
cry upon this article: as if those, who alone stood in the gap against all the encroachments
of Popery and arbitrary power, are not more likely to keep out both, than a set of schismatics,
who to gratify their ambition and revenge, did, by the meanest compliances, encourage and spirit
up that unfortunate prince, to fell upon such measures, as must, at last, have ended in the
ruin of our liberty and religion.

I wish those who give themselves the trouble to write to the "Examiner" would consider whether
what they send be proper for such a paper to take notice of: I had one letter last week, written,
as I suppose, by a divine, to desire I would offer some reasons against a Bill now before the
Parliament for Ascertaining the Tithe of Hops;[6] from which the writer apprehends great damage
to the clergy, especially the poorer vicars: If it be, as he says, (and he seems to argue very
reasonably upon it) the convocation now sitting, will, no doubt, upon due application, represent
the matter to the House of Commons; and he may expect all justice and favour from that great
body, who have already appeared so tender of their rights.

A gentleman, likewise, who hath sent me several letters, relating to personal hardships he
received from some of the late ministry; is advised to publish a narrative of them, they being
too large, and not proper for this paper.

[Footnote 1: No. 36 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: "Three different forms, of threefold threads combined, The selfsame day in common
ruin joined." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: It is recorded in "The Speeches and Prayers of ... Mr. John Carew," 1660, and
in "Rebels no Saints," 1661, that at the execution of John Carew, on October 15th, 1660: "One
asked him if he thought there would be a resurrection of the cause? He answered, he died in
the faith of that, as much as he did that his body should rise again." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: The Scotch General Assembly approved the "Solemn League and Covenant" on August
17th, 1643; it was publicly taken by the House of Commons at St. Margaret's, Westminster, on
September 25th. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: Such a law was passed December 20th, 1711. It was entitled "An Act for preserving
the Protestant Religion" (10 Ann, c. 6), and required persons appointed to various offices
to conform to the Church of England for one year and to receive the Sacrament three times. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: Leave was given for a Bill for Ascertaining the Tithe of Hops, March 26th, 1711,
and the Bill was presented May 10th. It does not appear to have gone any further. [T.S.]]

NUMB. 38.[1]

FROM THURSDAY APRIL 12, TO THURSDAY APRIL 19, 1711.

  Semper causae eventorum magis movent quam ipsa eventa.[2]

I am glad to observe, that several among the Whigs have begun very much to change their language
of late. The style is now among the reasonable part of them, when they meet a man in business,
or a Member of Parliament; "Well, gentlemen, if you go on as you have hitherto done, we shall
no longer have any pretence to complain." They find, it seems, that there have been yet no
overtures made to bring in the Pretender, nor any preparatory steps towards it. They read no
enslaving votes, nor bills brought in to endanger the subject. The indulgence to scrupulous
consciences,[3] is again confirmed from the throne, inviolably preserved, and not the least
whisper offered that may affect it. All care is taken to support the war; supplies cheerfully
granted, and funds readily subscribed to, in spite of the little arts made use of to discredit
them. The just resentments of some, which are laudable in themselves, and which at another
juncture it might be proper to give way to, have been softened or diverted by the calmness
of others. So that upon the article of present management, I do not see how any objection of
weight can well be raised.

However, our adversaries still allege, that this great success was wholly unexpected, and out
of all probable view. That in public affairs, we ought least of all others, to judge by events;
that the attempt of changing a ministry, during the difficulties of a long war, was rash and
inconsiderate: That if the Qu[een] were disposed by her inclinations, or from any personal
dislike, for such a change, it might have been done with more safety, in a time of peace: That
if it had miscarried by any of those incidents, which in all appearance might have intervened,
the consequences would perhaps have ruined the whole confederacy; and, therefore, however it
hath now succeeded, the experiment was too dangerous to try.

But this is what we can by no means allow them. We never will admit rashness or chance to have
produced all this harmony and order. It is visible to the world, that the several steps towards
this change were slowly taken, and with the utmost caution. The movers observed as they went
on, how matters would bear, and advanced no farther at first, than so as they might be able
to stop or go back, if circumstances were not mature. Things were grown to such a height, that
it was no longer the question, whether a person who aimed at an employment, were a Whig or
a Tory, much less, whether he had merit or proper abilities for what he pretended to: he must
owe his preferment only to the favourites; and the crown was so far from nominating, that they
would not allow it a negative. This, the Qu[een] was resolved no longer to endure, and began
to break into their prescription, by bestowing one or two places of consequence,[4] without
consulting her ephori; after they had fixed them for others, and concluded as usually, that
all their business was to signify their pleasure to her M[ajest]y. But though the persons the
Qu[een] had chosen, were such as no objection could well be raised against upon the score of
party; yet the oligarchy took the alarm;[5] their sovereign authority was, it seems, called
in question; they grew into anger and discontent, as if their undoubted rights were violated.
All former obligations to their sovereign now became cancelled; and they put themselves upon
the foot of people, who were hardly used after the most eminent services.

I believe all men, who know any thing in politics, will agree, that a prince thus treated,
by those he has most confided in, and perpetually loaded with his favours, ought to extricate
himself as soon as possible; and is then only blamable in his choice of time, when he defers
one minute after it is in his power; because, from the monstrous encroachments of exorbitant
avarice and ambition, he cannot tell how long it may continue to be so. And it will be found,
upon enquiring into history, that most of those princes, who have been ruined by favourites,
have owed their misfortune to the neglect of early remedies; deferring to struggle till they
were quite sunk.

The Whigs are every day cursing the ungovernable rage, the haughty pride, and unsatiable covetousness
of a certain person,[6] as the cause of their fall; and are apt to tell their thoughts, that
one single removal might have set all things right. But the interests of that single person,
were found, upon experience, so complicated and woven with the rest, by love, by awe, by marriage,
by alliance, that they would rather confound heaven and earth, than dissolve such an union.

I have always heard and understood, that a king of England, possessed of his people's hearts,
at the head of a free Parliament, and in full agreement with a great majority, made the true
figure in the world that such a monarch ought to do, and pursued the real interest of himself
and his kingdom. Will they allow her M[ajest]y to be in those circumstances at present? And
was it not plain by the addresses sent from all parts of the island,[7] and by the visible
disposition of the people, that such a Parliament would undoubtedly be chosen? And so it proved,
without the court's using any arts to influence elections.

What people then, are these in a corner, to whom the constitution must truckle? If the whole
nation's credit cannot supply funds for the war, without humble application from the entire
legislature to a few retailers of money, it is high time we should sue for a peace. What new
maxims are these, which neither we nor our forefathers ever heard of before, and which no wise
institution would ever allow? Must our laws from henceforward pass the Bank and East India
Company, or have their royal assent before they are in force?

To hear some of those worthy reasoners talking of credit, that she is so nice, so squeamish,
so capricious; you would think they were describing a lady troubled with vapours or the colick,
to be only removed by a course of steel, and swallowing a bullet. By the narrowness of their
thoughts, one would imagine they conceived the world to be no wider than Exchange Alley. It
is probable they may have such a sickly dame among them, and it is well if she has no worse
diseases, considering what hands she passes through. But the national credit is of another
complexion; of sound health, and an even temper, her life and existence being a quintessence
drawn from the vitals of the whole kingdom. And we find these money-politicians, after all
their noise, to be of the same opinion, by the court they paid her, when she lately appeared
to them in the form of a lottery.[8]

As to that mighty error in politics, they charge upon the Qu[een], for changing her ministry
in the height of a war, I suppose, it is only looked upon as an error under a Whiggish administration;
otherwise, the late King has much to answer for, who did it pretty frequently. And it is well
known, that the late ministry of famous memory, was brought in during this present war,[9]
only with this circumstance, that two or three of the chief, did first change their own principles,
and then took in suitable companions.

But however, I see no reason why the Tories should not value their wisdom by events, as well
as the Whigs. Nothing was ever thought a more precipitate rash counsel, than that of altering
the coin at the juncture it was done;[10] yet the prudence of the undertaking was sufficiently
justified by the success. Perhaps it will be said, that the attempt was necessary, because
the whole species of money, was so grievously clipped and counterfeit. And, is not her Majesty's
authority as sacred as her coin? And has not that been most scandalously clipped and mangled,
and often counterfeited too?

It is another grievous complaint of the Whigs, that their late friends, and the whole party,
are treated with abundance of severity in print, and in particular by the "Examiner." They
think it hard, that when they are wholly deprived of power, hated by the people, and out of
all hope of re-establishing themselves, their infirmities should be so often displayed, in
order to render them yet more odious to mankind. This is what they employ their writers to
set forth in their papers of the week; and it is humoursome enough to observe one page taken
up in railing at the "Examiner" for his invectives against a discarded ministry; and the other
side filled with the falsest and vilest abuses, against those who are now in the highest power
and credit with their sovereign, and whose least breath would scatter them into silence and
obscurity. However, though I have indeed often wondered to see so much licentiousness taken
and connived at, and am sure it would not be suffered in any other country of Christendom;
yet I never once invoked the assistance of the gaol or the pillory, which upon the least provocation,
was the usual style during their tyranny. There hath not passed a week these twenty years without
some malicious paper, scattered in every coffee-house by the emissaries of that party, whether
it were down or up. I believe, they will not pretend to object the same thing to us. Nor do
I remember any constant weekly paper, with reflections on the late ministry or j[u]nto. They
have many weak, defenceless parts, they have not been used to a regular attack, and therefore
it is that they are so ill able to endure one, when it comes to be their turn. So that they
complain more of a few months' truths from us, than we did of all their scandal and malice,
for twice as many years.

I cannot forbear observing upon this occasion, that those worthy authors I am speaking of,
seem to me, not fairly to represent the sentiments of their party; who in disputing with us,
do generally give up several of the late m[inist]ry, and freely own many of their failings.
They confess the monstrous debt upon the navy, to have been caused by most scandalous mismanagement;
they allow the insolence of some, and the avarice of others, to have been insupportable: but
these gentlemen are most liberal in their praises to those persons, and upon those very articles,
where their wisest friends give up the point. They gravely tell us, that such a one was the
most faithful servant that ever any prince had; another the most dutiful, a third the most
generous, and a fourth of the greatest integrity. So that I look upon these champions, rather
as retained by a cabal than a party, which I desire the reasonable men among them would please
to consider.

[Footnote 1: No. 37 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Cicero, "Ep. ad Att.," ix. 5. "I am always more affected by the causes of events
than by the events themselves."--E.S. SHUCKBURGH. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: "I am resolved  ... to maintain the indulgence by law allowed to scrupulous consciences"
(Queen Anne's Speech, November 27th, 1710). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: The Queen appointed Earl Rivers to the lieutenancy of the Tower without the Duke
of Marlborough's concurrence. See "Memoirs Relating to that Change," etc. (vol. v., pp. 375-7
of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: "Upon the fall of that great minister and favourite [Godolphin], that whole party
became dispirited, and seemed to expect the worst that could follow". (Swift's "Memoirs Relating
to that Change," etc., vol v., p. 378 of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: The Duchess of Marlborough. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: "The bulk of the high-church, or Tory-party ... were both very industrious in
procuring addresses, which, under the pretence of expressing their loyalty to the Queen, and
affection to the Church established, were mainly levelled, like so many batteries, against
the ministry and Parliament," etc. (Boyer's "Annals of Queen Anne," ix. 158-9). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: An Act for reviving ... certain Duties (9 Ann., c. 6), provided that £1,500,000
should be raised "by way of a lottery." It was introduced February 15th, and received the Royal
Assent March 6th, 1710/1 [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: The Queen appointed a ministry with Lord Godolphin as lord treasurer in the first
months of her reign, May-July, 1702. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: The clipping of coin had become so widespread that it was absolutely imperative
that steps should be taken to readjust matters. It was resolved, therefore, in 1695, to call
in all light money and recoin it. The matter was placed in charge of the then chancellor of
the exchequer, Charles Montague, afterwards Earl of Halifax, and he, with the assistance of
Sir Isaac Newton, successfully accomplished the very arduous task. It cost the nation about
£2,200,000, and a considerable inconvenience owing to lack of coins. [T.S.]]

NUMB. 39.[1]

FROM THURSDAY APRIL 19, TO THURSDAY APRIL 26, 1711.

Indignum est in ed civitate, quae legibus continetur, discedi a legibus.[2]

I[3] have been often considering how it comes to pass, that the dexterity of mankind in evil,
should always outgrow, not only the prudence and caution of private persons, but the continual
expedients of the wisest laws contrived to prevent it. I cannot imagine a knave to possess
a greater share of natural wit or genius, than an honest man. I have known very notable sharpers
at play, who upon all other occasions, were as great dunces, as human shape can well allow;
and I believe, the same might be observed among the other knots of thieves and pickpockets,
about this town. The proposition however is certainly true, and to be confirmed by an hundred
instances. A scrivener, an attorney, a stock-jobber, and many other retailers of fraud, shall
not only be able to overreach others, much wiser than themselves, but find out new inventions,
to elude the force of any law made against them. I suppose, the reason of this may be, that
as the aggressor is said to have generally the advantage of the defender; so the makers of
the law, which is to defend our rights, have usually not so much industry or vigour, as those
whose interest leads them to attack it. Besides, it rarely happens that men are rewarded by
the public for their justice and virtue; neither do those who act upon such principles, expect
any recompense till the next world: whereas fraud, where it succeeds, gives present pay; and
this is allowed the greatest spur imaginable both to labour and invention. When a law is made
to stop some growing evil, the wits of those, whose interest it is to break it with secrecy
or impunity, are immediately at work; and even among those who pretend to fairer characters,
many would gladly find means to avoid, what they would not be thought to violate. They desire
to reap the advantage, if possible, without the shame, or at least, without the danger. This
art is what I take that dexterous race of men, sprung up soon after the Revolution, to have
studied with great application ever since, and to have arrived at great perfection in it. According
to the doctrine of some Romish casuists, they have found out quam propè ad peccatum sine peccato
possint accedere.[3] They can tell how to go within an inch of an impeachment, and yet come
back untouched. They know what degree of corruption will just forfeit an employment, and whether
the bribe you receive be sufficient to set you right, and put something in your pocket besides.
How much to a penny, you may safely cheat the Qu[ee]n, whether forty, fifty or sixty per cent.
according to the station you are in, and the dispositions of the persons in office, below and
above you. They have computed the price you may securely take or give for a place, or what
part of the salary you ought to reserve. They can discreetly distribute five hundred pounds
in a small borough, without any danger from the statutes, against bribing elections. They can
manage a bargain for an office, by a third, fourth or fifth hand, so that you shall not know
whom to accuse; and win a thousand guineas at play, in spite of the dice, and send away the
loser satisfied: They can pass the most exorbitant accounts, overpay the creditor with half
his demands, and sink the rest.

It would be endless to relate, or rather indeed impossible to discover, the several arts which
curious men have found out to enrich themselves, by defrauding the public, in defiance of the
law. The military men, both by sea and land, have equally cultivated this most useful science:
neither hath it been altogether neglected by the other sex; of which, on the contrary, I could
produce an instance, that would make ours blush to be so far outdone.

Besides, to confess the truth, our laws themselves are extremely defective in many articles,
which I take to be one ill effect of our best possession, liberty. Some years ago, the ambassador
of a great prince was arrested,[4] and outrages committed on his person in our streets, without
any possibility of redress from Westminster-Hall, or the prerogative of the sovereign; and
the legislature was forced to provide a remedy against the like evils in times to come. A commissioner
of the stamped paper[5] was lately discovered to have notoriously cheated the public of great
sums for many years, by counterfeiting the stamps, which the law had made capital. But the
aggravation of his crime, proved to be the cause that saved his life; and that additional heightening
circumstance of betraying his trust, was found to be a legal defence. I am assured, that the
notorious cheat of the brewers at Portsmouth,[6] detected about two months ago in Parliament,
cannot by any law now in force, be punished in any degree, equal to the guilt and infamy of
it. Nay, what is almost incredible, had Guiscard survived his detestable attempt upon Mr. Harley's
person, all the inflaming circumstances of the fact, would not have sufficed, in the opinion
of many lawyers, to have punished him with death;[7] and the public must have lain under this
dilemma, either to condemn him by a law, ex post facto (which would have been of dangerous
consequence, and form an ignominious precedent) or undergo the mortification to see the greatest
villain upon earth escape unpunished, to the infinite triumph and delight of Popery and faction.
But even this is not to be wondered at, when we consider, that of all the insolences offered
to the Qu[een] since the Act of Indemnity, (at least, that ever came to my ears) I can hardly
instance above two or three, which, by the letter of the law could amount to high treason.

From these defects in our laws, and the want of some discretionary power safely lodged, to
exert upon emergencies; as well as from the great acquirements of able men, to elude the penalties
of those laws they break, it is no wonder, the injuries done to the public, are so seldom redressed.
But besides, no individual suffers, by any wrong he does to the commonwealth, in proportion
to the advantage he gains by doing it. There are seven or eight millions who contribute to
the loss, while the whole gain is sunk among a few. The damage suffered by the public, is not
so immediately or heavily felt by particular persons, and the zeal of prosecution is apt to
drop and be lost among numbers.

But imagine a set of politicians for many years at the head of affairs, the game visibly their
own, and by consequence acting with great security: may not these be sometimes tempted to forget
their caution, by length of time, by excess of avarice and ambition, by the insolence or violence
of their nature, or perhaps by a mere contempt for their adversaries? May not such motives
as these, put them often upon actions directly against the law, such as no evasions can be
found for, and which will lay them fully open to the vengeance of a prevailing interest, whenever
they are out of power? It is answered in the affirmative. And here we cannot refuse the late
m[inistr]y their due praises, who foreseeing a storm, provided for their own safety, by two
admirable expedients, by which, with great prudence, they have escaped the punishments due
to pernicious counsels and corrupt management. The first, was to procure, under pretences hardly
specious, a general Act of Indemnity,[8] which cuts off all impeachments. The second, was yet
more refined: suppose, for instance, a counsel is to be pursued, which is necessary to carry
on the dangerous designs of a prevailing party, to preserve them in power, to gratify the immeasurable
appetites of a few leaders, civil and military, though by hazarding the ruin of the whole nation:
this counsel, desperate in itself, unprecedented in the nature of it, they procure a majority
to form into an address,[9] which makes it look like the sense of the nation. Under that shelter
they carry on their work, and lie secure against after-reckonings.

I must be so free to tell my meaning in this, that among other things, I understand it of the
address made to the Qu[een] about three years ago, to desire that her M[ajest]y would not consent
to a peace, without the entire restitution of Sp[ai]n.[10] A proceeding, which to people abroad,
must look like the highest strain of temerity, folly, and gasconade. But we at home, who allow
the promoters of that advice to be no fools, can easily comprehend the depth and mystery of
it. They were assured by this means, to pin down the war upon us, consequently to increase
their own power and wealth, and multiply difficulties on the Qu[een] and kingdom, till they
had fixed their party too firmly to be shaken, whenever they should find themselves disposed
to reverse their address, and give us leave to wish for a peace.

If any man entertains a more favourable opinion of this monstrous step in politics; I would
ask him what we must do, in case we find it impossible to recover Spain? Those among the Whigs
who believe a God, will confess, that the events of war lie in His hands; and the rest of them,
who acknowledge no such power, will allow, that Fortune hath too great a share in the good
or ill success of military actions, to let a wise man reason upon them, as if they were entirely
in his power. If Providence shall think fit to refuse success to our arms, with how ill a grace,
with what shame and confusion, shall we be obliged to recant that precipitate address, unless
the world will be so charitable to consider, that parliaments among us, differ as much as princes,
and that by the fatal conjunction of many unhappy circumstances, it is very possible for our
island to be represented sometimes by those who have the least pretensions to it. So little
truth or justice there is in what some pretend to advance, that the actions of former senates,
ought always to be treated with respect by the latter; that those assemblies are all equally
venerable, and no one to be preferred before another: by which argument, the Parliament that
began the rebellion against King Charles the First, voted his trial, and appointed his murderers,
ought to be remembered with respect.

But to return from this digression; it is very plain, that considering the defectiveness of
our laws, the variety of cases, the weakness of the prerogative, the power or the cunning of
ill-designing men, it is possible, that many great abuses may be visibly committed, which cannot
be legally punished: especially if we add to this, that some enquiries might probably involve
those, whom upon other accounts, it is not thought convenient to disturb. Therefore, it is
very false reasoning, especially in the management of public affairs, to argue that men are
innocent, because the law hath not pronounced them guilty.

I am apt to think, it was to supply such defects as these, that satire was first introduced
into the world; whereby those whom neither religion, nor natural virtue, nor fear of punishment,
were able to keep within the bounds of their duty, might be withheld by the shame of having
their crimes exposed to open view in the strongest colours, and themselves rendered odious
to mankind. Perhaps all this may be little regarded by such hardened and abandoned natures
as I have to deal with; but, next to taming or binding a savage animal, the best service you
can do the neighbourhood, is to give them warning, either to arm themselves, or not come in
its way.

Could I have hoped for any signs of remorse from the leaders of that faction, I should very
gladly have changed my style, and forgot or passed by their million of enormities. But they
are every day more fond of discovering their impotent zeal and malice: witness their conduct
in the city about a fortnight ago,[11] which had no other end imaginable, beside that of perplexing
our affairs, and endeavouring to make things desperate, that themselves may be thought necessary.
While they continue in this frantic mood, I shall not forbear to treat them as they deserve;
that is to say, as the inveterate, irreconcilable enemies to our country and its constitution.

[Footnote 1: No. 38 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: "It is a shameful thing in a state which is governed by laws, that there should
be any departure from them." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: This paper called forth a reply which was printed in two forms, one with the title:
"A Few Words upon the Examiner's Scandalous Peace" (London, 1711), and the other, "Reflections
upon the Examiner's Scandalous Peace" (London: A. Baldwin, 1711). A careful comparison of these
pamphlets shows that the text corresponds page for page. The author commences: "Though 'The
Examiner' be certainly the most trifling, scurrilous, and malicious writer that ever appeared,
yet, in spite of all his gross untruths and absurd notions, by assuming to himself an air of
authority, and speaking in the person of one employed by the ministry, he sometimes gives a
kind of weight to what he says, so as to make impressions of terror upon honest minds." Then,
after quoting several of the Queen's Speeches to Parliament, and the Addresses in reply, he
observes: "The 'Examiner' is resolved to continue so faithful to his principal quality of speaking
untruths, that he has industriously taken care not to recite truly the very Address he makes
it his business to rail at;" and he points out that it was not the "restitution of Spain,"
but the restoration of the Spanish Monarchy to the House of Austria that was desired. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: "How near to sin they can go without actually sinning." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: The Muscovite Ambassador (A.A. Matveof) was arrested and taken out of his coach
by violence. A Bill was brought into the House of Commons "for preserving the Privileges of
Ambassadors," February 7th, 1708/9, and obtained the Royal Assent, April 21st, 1709 (7 Ann. c. 12).

Matveof, it seemed, was arrested by his creditors, who feared that, since he had taken leave
at Court, they would never be paid. Peter the Great was angry at the indignity thus offered
his representative, and was only unwillingly pacified by the above Act. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: Richard Dyet, J.P., "is discovered to have counterfeited stamped paper, in which
he was a commissioner; and, with his accomplices, has cheated the Queen of £100,000" (Swift's
"Journal to Stella," October 3rd, 1710, vol. ii., p. 20 of present edition). He was tried for
felony at the Old Bailey, January 13th, 1710/1, and was acquitted, because his offence was
only a breach of trust. He was, however, re-committed for trial on the charge of misdemeanour.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: "Some very considerable abuses," the chancellor of the exchequer informed the
House of Commons on January 3rd, 1710/1, "have been discovered in the victualling." It appears
that the seamen in the navy were allowed seven pints of beer per day, during the time they
were on board. In port, of course the sailors were permitted to go ashore, but the allowance
was still charged to the ship's account; and became a perquisite of the purser. It often happened
that the contractors did not send in the full amount of beer paid for, but gave the purser
money in exchange for the difference. The scandal was brought to the attention of the House
as stated, and a committee was appointed to inquire into the abuse. On February 15th the House
considered the committee's report, and it was found that Thomas Ridge, Member for Portsmouth,
contracted to supply 5,513 tons of beer, and had delivered only 3,213. Several other brewers
of Portsmouth had been guilty of the same fraud. Mr. Ridge was expelled the House the same
day. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: See Swift's "Journal," quoted in notes to No. 33, ante, p. 214. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: This Act was passed in 1708. See No. 18, ante, and note, p. 105. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: The Address from both Houses, presented to the Queen, February 18th, 1709/10,
prayed that she "would be pleased to order the Duke of Marlborough's immediate departure for
Holland, where his presence will be equally necessary, to assist at the negotiations of peace,
and to hasten the preparations for an early campaign," etc. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: The Address of both Houses to the Queen, presented on December 23rd, 1707, urged:
"That nothing could restore a just balance of power in Europe, but the reducing the whole Spanish
monarchy to the obedience of the House of Austria; and ... That no peace can be honourable
or safe, for your Majesty or your allies, if Spain, the West Indies, or any part of the Spanish
Monarchy, be suffered to remain under the power of the House of Bourbon." The resolutions as
carried in the House of Lords on December 19th did not include the words "or any part of the
Spanish Monarchy"; these words were introduced on a motion by Somers who was in the chair when
the Select Committee met on December 20th to embody the resolutions in proper form. The altered
resolution was quickly hurried through the Lords and agreed to by the Commons, and the Address
as amended was presented to the Queen. By this bold move Somers prolonged the war indefinitely.
See also note at the commencement of this number. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: This refers to the election of the governor and directors of the Bank of England
on April 12th and 13th. All the Whig candidates were returned, and Sir H. Furnese was on the
same day chosen Alderman for Bridge Within. See also No. 41, post, p. 267, [T.S.]]

NUMB. 40.[1]

FROM THURSDAY APRIL 26, TO THURSDAY MAY 3, 1711.

  Quis tulerit Gracchos de seditione querentes?[2]

There have been certain topics of reproach, liberally bestowed for some years past, by the
Whigs and Tories, upon each other. We charge the former with a design of destroying the established
Church, and introducing fanaticism and freethinking in its stead. We accuse them as enemies
to monarchy; as endeavouring to undermine the present form of government, and to build a commonwealth,
or some new scheme of their own, upon its ruins. On the other side, their clamours against
us, may be summed up in those three formidable words, Popery, Arbitrary Power, and the Pretender.
Our accusations against them we endeavour to make good by certain overt acts; such as their
perpetually abusing the whole body of the clergy; their declared contempt for the very order
of priesthood; their aversion for episcopacy; the public encouragement and patronage they gave
to Tindall, Toland, and other atheistical writers; their appearing as professed advocates,
retained by the Dissenters, excusing their separation, and laying the guilt of it to the obstinacy
of the Church; their frequent endeavours to repeal the test, and their setting up the indulgence
to scrupulous consciences, as a point of greater importance than the established worship. The
regard they bear to our monarchy, hath appeared by their open ridiculing the martyrdom of King
Charles the First, in their Calves-head Clubs,[3] their common discourses and their pamphlets:
their denying the unnatural war raised against that prince, to have been a rebellion; their
justifying his murder in the allowed papers of the week; their industry in publishing and spreading
seditious and republican tracts; such as Ludlow's "Memoirs," Sidney "Of Government,"[4] and
many others; their endless lopping of the prerogative, and mincing into nothing her M[ajest]y's
titles to the crown.

What proofs they bring for our endeavouring to introduce Popery, arbitrary power, and the Pretender,
I cannot readily tell, and would be glad to hear; however, those important words having by
dexterous management, been found of mighty service to their cause, though applied with little
colour, either of reason or justice; I have been considering whether they may not be adapted
to more proper objects.

As to Popery, which is the first of these, to deal plainly, I can hardly think there is any
set of men among us, except the professors of it, who have any direct intention to introduce
it among us: but the question is, whether the principles and practices of us, or the Whigs,
be most likely to make way for it? It is allowed, on all hands, that among the methods concerted
at Rome, for bringing over England into the bosom of the Catholic Church; one of the chief
was, to send Jesuits and other emissaries, in lay habits, who personating tradesmen and mechanics,
should mix with the people, and under the pretence of a further and purer reformation, endeavour
to divide us into as many sects as possible, which would either put us under the necessity
of returning to our old errors, to preserve peace at home; or by our divisions make way for
some powerful neighbour, with the assistance of the Pope's permission, and a consecrated banner,
to convert and enslave us at once. If this hath been reckoned good politics (and it was the
best the Jesuit schools could invent) I appeal to any man, whether the Whigs, for many years
past, have not been employed in the very same work? They professed on all occasions, that they
knew no reason why any one system of speculative opinions (as they termed the doctrines of
the Church) should be established by law more than another; or why employments should be confined
to the religion of the magistrate, and that called the Church established. The grand maxim
they laid down was, That no man, for the sake of a few notions and ceremonies, under the names
of doctrine and discipline, should be denied the liberty of serving his country: as if places
would go a begging, unless Brownists, Familists, Sweet-singers, Quakers, Anabaptists and Muggletonians,
would take them off our hands.

I have been sometimes imagining this scheme brought to perfection, and how diverting it would
look to see half a dozen Sweet-singers on the bench in their ermines, and two or three Quakers
with their white staves at court. I can only say, this project is the very counterpart of the
late King James's design, which he took up as the best method for introducing his own religion,
under the pretext of an universal liberty of conscience, and that no difference in religion,
should make any in his favour. Accordingly, to save appearances, he dealt some employments
among Dissenters of most denominations; and what he did was, no doubt, in pursuance of the
best advice he could get at home or abroad; and the Church thought it the most dangerous step
he could take for her destruction. It is true, King James admitted Papists among the rest,
which the Whigs would not; but this is sufficiently made up by a material circumstance, wherein
they seem to have much outdone that prince, and to have carried their liberty of conscience
to a higher point, having granted it to all the classes of Freethinkers, which the nice conscience
of a Popish prince would not give him leave to do; and was therein mightily overseen; because
it is agreed by the learned, that there is but a very narrow step from atheism, to the other
extreme, superstition. So that upon the whole, whether the Whigs had any real design of bringing
in Popery or no, it is very plain, that they took the most effectual step towards it; and if
the Jesuits had been their immediate directors, they could not have taught them better, nor
have found apter scholars.

Their second accusation is, That we encourage and maintain arbitrary power in princes, and
promote enslaving doctrines among the people. This they go about to prove by instances, producing
the particular opinions of certain divines in King Charles the Second's reign; a decree of
Oxford University,[5] and some few writers since the Revolution. What they mean, is the principle
of passive obedience and non-resistance, which those who affirm, did, I believe, never intend
should include arbitrary power. However, though I am sensible that it is not reckoned prudent
in a dispute, to make any concessions without the last necessity; yet I do agree, that in my
own private opinion, some writers did carry that tenet of passive obedience to a height, which
seemed hardly consistent with the liberties of a country, whose laws can be neither enacted
nor repealed, without the consent of the whole people. I mean not those who affirm it due in
general, as it certainly is to the Legislature, but such as fix it entirely in the prince's
person. This last has, I believe, been done by a very few; but when the Whigs quote authors
to prove it upon us, they bring in all who mention it as a duty in general, without applying
it to princes, abstracted from their senate.

By thus freely declaring my own sentiments of passive obedience, it will at least appear, that
I do not write for a party: neither do I, upon any occasion, pretend to speak their sentiments,
but my own. The majority of the two Houses, and the present ministry (if those be a party)
seem to me in all their proceedings, to pursue the real interest of Church and State: and if
I shall happen to differ from particular persons among them, in a single notion about government,
I suppose they will not, upon that account, explode me and my paper. However, as an answer
once for all, to the tedious scurrilities of those idle people, who affirm, I am hired and
directed what to write;[6] I must here inform them, that their censure is an effect of their
principles: The present m[inistr]y are under no necessity of employing prostitute pens; they
have no dark designs to promote, by advancing heterodox opinions.

But (to return) suppose two or three private divines, under King Charles the Second, did a
little overstrain the doctrine of passive obedience to princes; some allowance might be given
to the memory of that unnatural rebellion against his father, and the dismal consequences of
resistance. It is plain, by the proceedings of the Churchmen before and at the Revolution,
that this doctrine was never designed to introduce arbitrary power.[7]

I look upon the Whigs and Dissenters to be exactly of the same political faith; let us, therefore,
see what share each of them had in advancing arbitrary power. It is manifest, that the fanatics
made Cromwell the most absolute tyrant in Christendom:[8] The Rump abolished the House of Lords;
the army abolished the Rump; and by this army of saints, he governed. The Dissenters took liberty
of conscience and employments from the late King James, as an acknowledgment of his dispensing
power; which makes a King of England as absolute as the Turk. The Whigs, under the late king,
perpetually declared for keeping up a standing army, in times of peace; which has in all ages
been the first and great step to the ruin of liberty. They were, besides, discovering every
day their inclinations to destroy the rights of the Church; and declared their opinion, in
all companies, against the bishops sitting in the House of Peers: which was exactly copying
after their predecessors of 'Forty-one. I need not say their real intentions were to make the
king absolute, but whatever be the designs of innovating men, they usually end in a tyranny:
as we may see by an hundred examples in Greece, and in the later commonwealths of Italy, mentioned
by Machiavel.

In the third place, the Whigs accuse us of a design to bring in the Pretender; and to give
it a greater air of probability, they suppose the Qu[een] to be a party in this design; which
however, is no very extraordinary supposition in those who have advanced such singular paradoxes
concerning Gregg and Guiscard. Upon this article, their charge is general, without ever offering
to produce an instance. But I verily think, and believe it will appear no paradox, that if
ever he be brought in, the Whigs are his men. For, first, it is an undoubted truth, that a
year or two after the Revolution, several leaders of that party had their pardons sent them
by the late King James,[9] and had entered upon measures to restore him, on account of some
disobligations they received from King William. Besides, I would ask, whether those who are
under the greatest ties of gratitude to King James, are not at this day become the most zealous
Whigs? And of what party those are now, who kept a long correspondence with St. Germains?

It is likewise very observable of late, that the Whigs upon all occasions, profess their belief
of the Pretender's being no impostor, but a real prince, born of the late Queen's body:[10]
which whether it be true or false, is very unseasonably advanced, considering the weight such
an opinion must have with the vulgar, if they once thoroughly believe it. Neither is it at
all improbable, that the Pretender himself puts his chief hopes in the friendship he expects
from the Dissenters and Whigs, by his choice to invade the kingdom when the latter were most
in credit: and he had reason to count upon the former, from the gracious treatment they received
from his supposed father, and their joyful acceptance of it. But further, what could be more
consistent with the Whiggish notion of a revolution-principle, than to bring in the Pretender?
A revolution-principle, as their writings and discourses have taught us to define it, is a
principle perpetually disposing men to revolutions: and this is suitable to the famous saying
of a great Whig, "That the more revolutions the better"; which how odd a maxim soever in appearance,
I take to be the true characteristic of the party.

A dog loves to turn round often; yet after certain revolutions, he lies down to rest: but heads,
under the dominion of the moon, are for perpetual changes, and perpetual revolutions: besides,
the Whigs owe all their wealth to wars and revolutions; like the girl at Bartholomew-fair,
who gets a penny by turning round a hundred times, with swords in her hands.[11]

To conclude, the Whigs have a natural faculty of bringing in pretenders, and will therefore
probably endeavour to bring in the great one at last: How many pretenders to wit, honour, nobility,
politics, have they brought in these last twenty years? In short, they have been sometimes
able to procure a majority of pretenders in Parliament; and wanted nothing to render the work
complete, except a Pretender at their head.

[Footnote 1: No. 39 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Juvenal, "Satires," ii. 24.

  "Who his spleen could rein,
  And hear the Gracchi of the mob complain?"--W. GIFFORD.

  [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: The Calves-Head Club "was erected by an impudent set of people, who have their
feast of calves-heads in several parts of the town, on the 30th of January; in derision of
the day, and defiance of monarchy" ("Secret History of the Calves-Head Club," 1703). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: These works can hardly be called "tracts." Algernon Sidney's "Discourses concerning
Government" (1698), is a portly folio of 467 pages, and Ludlow's "Memoirs" (1698-9) occupy
three stout octavo volumes. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: On July 21st, 1683, the University of Oxford passed a decree condemning as "false,
seditious, and impious," a series of twenty-seven propositions, among which were the following:

"All civil authority is derived originally from the people."

"The King has but a co-ordinate power, and may be over-ruled by the Lords and Commons."

"Wicked kings and tyrants ought to be put to death."

"King Charles the First was lawfully put to death."

The decree was reprinted in 1709/10 with the title, "An Entire Confutation of Mr. Hoadley's
Book, of the Original of Government." It was burnt by the order of the House of Lords, dated
March 23rd, 1709/10. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: In a letter to Dr. Chenevix, Bishop of Waterford (dated May 23rd, 1758), Lord
Chesterfield, speaking of Swift's "Last Four Years," says that it "is a party pamphlet, founded
on the lie of the day, which, as Lord Bolingbroke who had read it often assured me, was coined
and delivered out to him, to write 'Examiners' and other political papers upon" (Chesterfield's
"Works," ii. 498, edit. 1777). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: From this and many previous passages it is obvious, that, in joining the Tories,
Swift reserved to himself the right of putting his own interpretation upon the speculative
points of their political creed. [S.]]

[Footnote 8: See Swift's "Presbyterians' Plea of Merit," and note, vol. iv., p. 36, of present
edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: James II. sent a Declaration to England, dated April 20th, 1692, in which he promised
to pardon all those who should return to their duty. He made a few exceptions, and among these
were Ormonde, Sunderland, Nottingham, Churchill, etc. It is said that of Churchill James remarked
that he never could forgive him until he should efface the memory of his ingratitude by some
eminent service. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: "The Pretended Prince of Wales," as he is styled in several Acts of Parliament,
was first called "the Pretender" in Queen Anne's speech to Parliament on March 11th, 1707/8.
She then said: "The French fleet sailed from Dunkirk, Tuesday, at three in the morning, northward,
with the Pretender on board." The same epithet is employed in the Addresses by the two Houses
in reply to this speech.

It was currently reported that he was not a son of James II. and Queen Mary. Several pamphlets
were written by "W. Fuller," to prove that he was the son of a gentlewoman named Grey, who
was brought to England from Ireland in 1688 by the Countess of Tyrconnel. See also note on
p. 409 of vol. v. of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: An exhibition described at length in Ward's "London Spy." The wonder and dexterity
of the feat consisted in the damsel sustaining a number of drawn swords upright upon her hands,
shoulders, and neck, and turning round so nimbly as to make the spectators giddy. [S.]]

NUMB. 41.[1]

FROM THURSDAY MAY 3, TO THURSDAY MAY 10, 1711.[2]

  Dos est magna parentium virtus.[3]

I took up a paper[4] some days ago in a coffee-house; and if the correctness of the style,
and a superior spirit in it, had not immediately undeceived me, I should have been apt to imagine,
I had been reading an "Examiner." In this paper, there were several important propositions
advanced. For instance, that "Providence raised up Mr. H[arle]y to be an instrument of great
good, in a very critical juncture, when it was much wanted." That, "his very enemies acknowledge
his eminent abilities, and distinguishing merit, by their unwearied and restless endeavours
against his person and reputation": That "they have had an inveterate malice against both":
That he "has been wonderfully preserved from some unparalleled attempts"; with more to the
same purpose. I immediately computed by rules of arithmetic, that in the last cited words there
was something more intended than the attempt of Guiscard, which I think can properly pass but
for one of the "some." And, though I dare not pretend to guess the author's meaning; yet the
expression allows such a latitude, that I would venture to hold a wager, most readers, both
Whig and Tory, have agreed with me, that this plural number must, in all probability, among
other facts, take in the business of Gregg.[5]

See now the difference of styles. Had I been to have told my thoughts on this occasion; instead
of saying how Mr. H[arle]y was "treated by some persons," and "preserved from some unparalleled
attempts"; I should with intolerable bluntness and ill manners, have told a formal story, of
a com[mitt]ee[6] sent to a condemned criminal in Newgate, to bribe him with a pardon, on condition
he would swear high treason against his master, who discovered his correspondence, and secured
his person, when a certain grave politician had given him warning to make his escape: and by
this means I should have drawn a whole swarm of hedge-writers to exhaust their catalogue of
scurrilities against me as a liar, and a slanderer. But with submission to the author of that
forementioned paper, I think he has carried that expression to the utmost it will bear: for
after all this noise, I know of but two "attempts" against Mr. H[arle]y, that can really be
called "unparalleled," which are those aforesaid of Gregg and Guiscard; and as to the rest,
I will engage to parallel them from the story of Catiline, and others I could produce.

However, I cannot but observe, with infinite pleasure, that a great part of what I have charged
upon the late prevailing faction, and for affirming which, I have been adorned with so many
decent epithets, hath been sufficiently confirmed at several times, by the resolutions of one
or the other House of Parliament.[7] I may therefore now say, I hope, with good authority,
that there have been "some unparalleled attempts" against Mr. Harley. That the late ministry
were justly to blame in some management, which occasioned the unfortunate battle of Almanza,[8]
and the disappointment at Toulon.[9] That the public has been grievously wronged by most notorious
frauds, during the Whig administration. That those who advised the bringing in the Palatines,[10]
were enemies to the kingdom. That the late managers of the revenue have not duly passed their
accounts,[11] for a great part of thirty-five millions, and ought not to be trusted in such
employments any more. Perhaps in a little time, I may venture to affirm some other paradoxes
of this kind, and produce the same vouchers. And perhaps also, if it had not been so busy a
period, instead of one "Examiner," the late ministry might have had above four hundred, each
of whose little fingers would be heavier than my loins. It makes me think of Neptune's threat
to the winds:

  Quos ego--sed motos praestat componere fluctus.[12]

Thus when these sons of Aeolus, had almost sunk the ship with the tempests they raised, it
was necessary to smooth the ocean, and secure the vessel, instead of pursuing the offenders.

But I observe the general expectation at present, instead of dwelling any longer upon conjectures
who is to be punished for past miscarriages, seems bent upon the rewards intended to those,
who have been so highly instrumental in rescuing our constitution from its late dangers. It
is the observation of Tacitus, in the life of Agricola, that his eminent services had raised
a general opinion of his being designed, by the emperor, for praetor of Britain. Nullis in
hoc suis sermonibus, sed quia par videbatur: and then he adds, Non semper errat fama, aliquando
et eligit.[13] The judgment of a wise prince, and the general disposition of the people, do
often point at the same person; and sometimes the popular wishes, do even foretell the reward
intended for some superior merit. Thus among several deserving persons, there are two,[14]
whom the public vogue hath in a peculiar manner singled out, as designed very soon to receive
the choicest marks of the royal favour. One of them to be placed in a very high station, and
both to increase the number of our nobility. This, I say, is the general conjecture; for I
pretend to none, nor will be chargeable if it be not fulfilled; since it is enough for their
honour, that the nation thinks them worthy of the greatest rewards.

Upon this occasion I cannot but take notice, that of all the heresies in politics, profusely
scattered by the partisans of the late administration, none ever displeased me more, or seemed
to have more dangerous consequences to monarchy, than that pernicious talent so much affected,
of discovering a contempt for birth, family, and ancient nobility. All the threadbare topics
of poets and orators were displayed to discover to us, that merit and virtue were the only
nobility; and that the advantages of blood, could not make a knave or a fool either honest
or wise. Most popular commotions we read of in histories of Greece and Rome, took their rise
from unjust quarrels to the nobles; and in the latter, the plebeians' encroachments on the
patricians, were the first cause of their ruin.

Suppose there be nothing but opinion in the difference of blood; every body knows, that authority
is very much founded on opinion. But surely, that difference is not wholly imaginary. The advantages
of a liberal education, of choosing the best companions to converse with; not being under the
necessity of practising little mean tricks by a scanty allowance; the enlarging of thought,
and acquiring the knowledge of men and things by travel; the example of ancestors inciting
to great and good actions. These are usually some of the opportunities, that fall in the way
of those who are born, of what we call the better families; and allowing genius to be equal
in them and the vulgar, the odds are clearly on their side. Nay, we may observe in some, who
by the appearance of merit, or favour of fortune, have risen to great stations, from an obscure
birth, that they have still retained some sordid vices of their parentage or education, either
insatiable avarice, or ignominious falsehood and corruption.

To say the truth, the great neglect of education, in several noble families, whose sons are
suffered to pass the most improvable seasons of their youth, in vice and idleness, have too
much lessened their reputation; but even this misfortune we owe, among all the rest, to that
Whiggish practice of reviling the Universities, under the pretence of their instilling pedantry,
narrow principles, and high-church doctrines.

I would not be thought to undervalue merit and virtue, wherever they are to be found; but will
allow them capable of the highest dignities in a state, when they are in a very great degree
of eminence. A pearl holds its value though it be found in a dunghill; but however, that is
not the most probable place to search for it. Nay, I will go farther, and admit, that a man
of quality without merit, is just so much the worse for his quality; which at once sets his
vices in a more public view, and reproaches him for them. But on the other side, I doubt, those
who are always undervaluing the advantages of birth, and celebrating personal merit, have principally
an eye to their own, which they are fully satisfied with, and which nobody will dispute with
them about; whereas they cannot, without impudence and folly, pretend to be nobly born: because
this is a secret too easily discovered: for no men's parentage is so nicely inquired into,
as that of assuming upstarts; especially when they affect to make it better than it is, as
they often do, or behave themselves with insolence.

But whatever may be the opinion of others upon this subject, whose philosophical scorn for
blood and families, reaches even to those that are royal, or perhaps took its rise from a Whiggish
contempt of the latter; I am pleased to find two such instances of extraordinary merit, as
I have mentioned, joined with ancient and honourable birth, which whether it be of real or
imaginary value, hath been held in veneration by all wise, polite states, both ancient and
modern. And, as much a foppery, as men pretend to think it, nothing is more observable in those
who rise to great place or wealth, from mean originals, than their mighty solicitude to convince
the world that they are not so low as is commonly believed. They are glad to find it made out
by some strained genealogy, that they have some remote alliance with better families. Cromwell
himself was pleased with the impudence of a flatterer, who undertook to prove him descended
from a branch of the royal stem. I know a citizen,[15] who adds or alters a letter in his name
with every plum he acquires: he now wants but the change of a vowel, to be allied to a sovereign
prince in Italy; and that perhaps he may contrive to be done, by a mistake of the graver upon
his tombstone.

When I am upon this subject of nobility, I am sorry for the occasion given me, to mention the
loss of a person who was so great an ornament to it, as the late lord president;[16] who began
early to distinguish himself in the public service, and passed through the highest employments
of state, in the most difficult times, with great abilities and untainted honour. As he was
of a good old age, his principles of religion and loyalty had received no mixture from late
infusions, but were instilled into him by his illustrious father, and other noble spirits,
who had exposed their lives and fortunes for the royal martyr.

            ----Pulcherrima proles,
  Magnanimi heroes nati melioribus annis.[17]

His first great action was, like Scipio, to defend his father,[18] when oppressed by numbers;
and his filial piety was not only rewarded with long life, but with a son, who upon the like
occasion, would have shewn the same resolution. No man ever preserved his dignity better when
he was out of power, nor shewed more affability while he was in. To conclude: his character
(which I do not here pretend to draw) is such, as his nearest friends may safely trust to the
most impartial pen; nor wants the least of that allowance which, they say, is required for
those who are dead.

[Footnote 1: No. 40 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Writing to Stella, May 14th, 1711, Swift informs her: "Dr. Freind was with me,
and pulled out a twopenny pamphlet just published called 'The State of Wit,' giving a character
of all the papers that have come out of late. The author seems to be a Whig, yet he speaks
very highly of a paper called 'The Examiner,' and says the supposed author of it is Dr. Swift"
(vol. ii., p. 176, of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: Horace, "Odes," III. xxiv. 21.

[T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: "The Congratulatory Speech of William Bromley, Esq., ... together with the Chancellor
of the Exchequer's Answer."--See also No. 42, post, pp. 273-4. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: See No. 33, ante, pp. 207-14.

In Hoffman's "Secret Transactions" (pp. 14, 15) the matter is thus referred to: "Who those
persons were that offered Gregg his life, with great preferments and advantages (if he would
but accuse his master) may not uneasily be guessed at, for most of the time he was locked up
none but people of note, were permitted to come near him, who made him strange promises, and
often repeated them." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: "He does, with his own impudence, and with the malice of a devil, bring in both
Houses of P---- to say and mean the same thing.... It is matter of wonder ... to see the greatest
ministers of state we ever had (till now) treated by a poor paper-pedlar, every Thursday, like
the veriest rascals in the kingdom.... I could, if it were needful, bring a great many instances,
of this licentious way of the scum of mankind's treating the greatest peers in the nation"
("A Letter to the Seven Lords"). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: The Earl of Galway was defeated by the Duke of Berwick at this battle on April
25th, 1707. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: The Allies, under the Duke of Savoy, unsuccessfully laid siege to Toulon from
July 26th to August 21st, 1707. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: The Palatines, who were mostly Lutherans, came over to England in great numbers
in May and June of 1709. So large was the immigration that the House of Commons, on April 14th,
1711, passed a resolution declaring that the inviting and bringing over of the Palatines "at
the public expense, was an extravagant and unreasonable charge to the kingdom, and a scandalous
misapplication of the public money." Whoever advised it, said the resolution, "was an enemy
to the Queen and this kingdom." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: A Committee, appointed January 13th, 1710/1, reported in April, 1711, that accounts
for £35,302,107 18s. 9-5/8d.(sic) had not been passed. On February 21st, 1711/2, the auditors
presented a statement which showed that of these accounts (which went back to 1681), £6,133,571
had then been passed, and that a considerable portion of the remainder was waiting for technicalities
only. On June 11th, 1713, it was reported that £24,624,436 had been either passed or "adjusted."
See "Journals of House of Commons," xvi., xvii. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: Virgil, "Aeneid," i. 135. "Whom I--but first this uproar must be quelled."--R.
KENNEDY. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 13: Tacitus, "Agricola," 9. (Tacitus wrote "Haud semper," etc.) "An opinion not founded
upon any suggestions of his own, but upon his being thought equal to the station. Common fame
does not always err, sometimes it even directs a choice" ("Oxford Translation" revised). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: Harley, who was created Earl of Oxford and Earl Mortimer, May 23rd, 1711, and
Sir Simon Harcourt, made Baron Harcourt, September 3rd, 1711. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 15: Sir Henry Furnese (1658-1712), Bart. He obtained his baronetcy June 18th, 1707,
and was the first to receive that dignity since the Union. He sat in the House as Member for
Bramber and Sandwich, and was twice expelled. He was, however, re-elected for Sandwich and
represented that constituency until his death on November 30th, 1712.

The variety of ways in which his name has been spelt is quite remarkable. In the "Calendar
of State Papers" for 1691 and 1692, the name is given as Furness, Furnese, and Furnes. The
"Journals of the House of Commons," recording his expulsion, speaks of him as Furnesse. When
he was knighted (October 11th, 1691), the "Gazette" of October 19th printed it Furnace, and
when he was made a baronet, the same journal had it Furnese. In the official "Return of Names
of Members," the name is given successively as, Furnace, Furnac, Furnice, Furnise, Furness
and Furnese. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 16: Laurence Hyde, Earl of Rochester, second son of the first Earl of Clarendon (see
No. 27, ante, p. 170). He undertook the defence of his father when the latter was impeached
by the House of Commons, October 30th, 1667, on a charge of high treason. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 17: Virgil, "Aeneid," vi. 648-9.

  "Warriors, high souled, in better ages born,
  Great Teucer's noble race, these plains adorn."--J.M. KING.

  [T.S.]]

[Footnote 18: "When the tumultuous perplexed charge of accumulated treasons was preferred against
him by the Commons; his son Laurence, then a Member of that House, stept forth with this brave
defiance to his accusers, that, if they could make out any proof of any one single article,
he would, as he was authorized, join in the condemnation of his father" (Burton's "Genuineness
of Clarendon's History," p. 111). [T.S.]]

NUMB. 42.[1]

FROM THURSDAY MAY 10, TO THURSDAY MAY 17, 1711.

  ------Quem cur distringere coner,
  Tutus ab infestis latronibus?[2]

I never let slip an opportunity of endeavouring to convince the world, that I am not partial,
and to confound the idle reproach of my being hired or directed what to write in defence of
the present ministry,[3] or for detecting the practices of the former. When I first undertook
this paper, I firmly resolved, that if ever I observed any gross neglect, abuse or corruption
in the public management, which might give any just offence to reasonable people, I would take
notice of it with that innocent boldness which becomes an honest man, and a true lover of his
country; at the same time preserving the respect due to persons so highly entrusted by so wise
and excellent a Queen. I know not how such a liberty might have been resented; but I thank
God there has been no occasion given me to exercise it; for I can safely affirm, that I have
with the utmost rigour, examined all the actions of the present ministry, as far as they fall
under general cognizance, without being able to accuse them of one ill or mistaken step. Observing
indeed some time ago, that seeds of dissension[4] had been plentifully scattered from a certain
corner, and fearing they began to rise and spread, I immediately writ a paper on the subject;
which I treated with that warmth I thought it required: but the prudence of those at the helm
soon prevented this growing evil; and at present it seems likely to have no consequences.

I have had indeed for some time a small occasion of quarrelling, which I thought too inconsiderable
for a formal subject of complaint, though I have hinted at it more than once. But it is grown
at present to as great a height, as a matter of that nature can possibly bear; and therefore
I conceive it high time that an effectual stop should be put to it. I have been amazed at the
flaming licentiousness of several weekly papers, which for some months past, have been chiefly
employed in barefaced scurrilities against those who are in the greatest trust and favour with
the Qu[een], with the first and last letters of their names frequently printed; or some periphrasis
describing their station, or other innuendoes, contrived too plain to be mistaken. The consequence
of which is, (and it is natural it should be so) that their long impunity hath rendered them
still more audacious.

At this time I particularly intend a paper called the "Medley"; whose indefatigable, incessant
railings against me, I never thought convenient to take notice of, because it would have diverted
my design, which I thought was of public use.[5] Besides, I never yet observed that writer,
or those writers, (for it is every way a "Medley") to argue against any one material point
or fact that I had advanced, or make one fair quotation. And after all, I knew very well how
soon the world grow weary of controversy. It is plain to me, that three or four hands at least
have been joined at times in that worthy composition; but the outlines as well as the finishing,
seem to have been always the work of the same pen, as it is visible from half a score beauties
of style inseparable from it. But who these Meddlers are, or where the judicious leaders have
picked them up, I shall never go about to conjecture: factious rancour, false wit, abandoned
scurrility, impudent falsehood, and servile pedantry, having so many fathers, and so few to
own them, that curiosity herself would not be at the pains to guess. It is the first time I
ever did myself the honour to mention that admirable paper: nor could I imagine any occasion
likely to happen, that would make it necessary for me to engage with such an adversary. This
paper is weekly published, and as appears by the number, has been so for several months, and
is next to the "Observator,"[6] allowed to be the best production of the party. Last week my
printer brought me that of May 7, Numb. 32. where there are two paragraphs[7] relating to the
Speaker of the House of Commons, and to Mr. Harley; which, as little as I am inclined to engage
with such an antagonist, I cannot let pass, without failing in my duty to the public: and if
those in power will suffer such infamous insinuations to pass with impunity, they act without
precedent from any age or country of the world.

I desire to open this matter, and leave the Whigs themselves to determine upon it. The House
of Commons resolved, nemine contradicente, that the Speaker should congratulate Mr. Harley's
escape and recovery[8] in the name of the House, upon his first attendance on their service.
This is accordingly done; and the speech, together with the chancellor of the exchequer's,
are printed by order of the House.[9] The author of the "Medley" takes this speech to task
the very next week after it is published, telling us, in the aforesaid paper, that the Speaker's
commending Mr. Harley, for being "an instrument of great good" to the nation, was "ill-chosen
flattery"; because Mr. Harley had brought the "nation under great difficulties, to say no more:"
He says, that when the Speaker tells Mr. Harley, that Providence has "wonderfully preserved"
him "from some unparalleled attempts" (for that the "Medley" alludes to) he only "revives a
false and groundless calumny upon other men"; which is "an instance of impotent, but inveterate
malice,"[10] that makes him [the Speaker] "still appear more vile and contemptible." This is
an extract from his first paragraph. In the next this writer says, that the Speaker's "praying
to God for the continuance of Mr. Harley's life, as an invaluable blessing,[11] was a fulsome
piece of insincerity, which exposes him to shame and derision"; because he is "known to bear
ill will to Mr. Harley, to have an extreme bad opinion of him, and to think him an obstructor
of those fine measures he would bring about."

I now appeal to the Whigs themselves, whether a great minister of state, in high favour with
the Qu[een], and a Speaker of the House of Commons, were ever publicly treated after so extraordinary
a manner, in the most licentious times? For this is not a clandestine libel stolen into the
world, but openly printed and sold, with the bookseller's name and place of abode at the bottom.
And the juncture is admirable, when Mr. H[arle]y is generally believed upon the very point
to be made an earl, and promoted to the most important station of the kingdom:[12] nay, the
very marks of esteem he hath so lately received from the whole representative body of the people,
are called "ill-chosen flattery," and "a fulsome piece of insincerity," exposing the donors
"to shame and derision."

Does this intrepid writer think he has sufficiently disguised the matter, by that stale artifice
of altering the story, and putting it as a supposed case? Did any man who ever saw the congratulatory
speech, read either of those paragraphs in the "Medley," without interpreting them just as
I have done? Will the author declare upon his great sincerity, that he never had any such meaning?
Is it enough, that a jury at Westminster-Hall would, perhaps, not find him guilty of defaming
the Speaker and Mr. Harley in that paper? which however, I am much in doubt of too; and must
think the law very defective, if the reputation of such persons must lie at the mercy of such
pens. I do not remember to have seen any libel, supposed to be writ with caution and double
meaning, in order to prevent prosecution, delivered under so thin a cover, or so unartificially
made up as this; whether it were from an apprehension of his readers' dullness, or an effect
of his own. He hath transcribed the very phrases of the Speaker, and put them in a different
character, for fear they might pass unobserved, and to prevent all possibility of being mistaken.
I shall be pleased to see him have recourse to the old evasion, and say, that I who make the
application, am chargeable with the abuse: let any reader of either party be judge. But I cannot
forbear asserting, as my opinion, that for a m[inist]ry to endure such open calumny, without
calling the author to account, is next to deserving it. And this is an omission I venture to
charge upon the present m[inist]ry, who are too apt to despise little things, which however
have not always little consequences.

When this paper was first undertaken, one design, among others, was, to Examine some of those
writings so frequently published with an evil tendency, either to religion or government; but
I was long diverted by other enquiries, which I thought more immediately necessary, to animadvert
upon men's actions, rather than their speculations: to shew the necessity there was of changing
the ministry, that our constitution in Church and State might be preserved; to expose some
dangerous principles and practices under the former administration, and prove by many instances,
that those who are now at the helm, are entirely in the true interest of prince and people.
This I may modestly hope, hath in some measure been already done, sufficient to answer the
end proposed, which was to inform the ignorant and those at distance, and to convince such
as are not engaged in a party, from other motives than that of conscience. I know not whether
I shall have any appetite to continue this work much longer; if I do, perhaps some time may
be spent in exposing and overturning the false reasonings of those who engage their pens on
the other side, without losing time in vindicating myself against their scurrilities, much
less in retorting them. Of this sort there is a certain humble companion, a French maître de
langues,[13] who every month publishes an extract from votes, newspapers, speeches and proclamations,
larded with some insipid remarks of his own; which he calls "The Political State of Great Britain:"[14]
This ingenious piece he tells us himself, is constantly translated into French, and printed
in Holland, where the Dutch, no doubt, conceive most noble sentiments of us, conveyed through
such a vehicle. It is observable in his account for April, that the vanity, so predominant
in many of his nation, has made him more concerned for the honour of Guiscard, than the safety
of Mr. H[arle]y: And for fear we should think the worse of his country upon that assassin's
account,[15] he tells us, there have been more murders, parricides and villanies, committed
in England, than any other part of the world. I cannot imagine how an illiterate foreigner,
who is neither master of our language, or indeed of common sense, and who is devoted to a faction,
I suppose, for no other reason, but his having more Whig customers than Tories, should take
it into his head to write politic tracts of our affairs. But I presume, he builds upon the
foundation of having being called to an account for his insolence in one of his former monthly
productions,[16] which is a method that seldom fails of giving some vogue to the foolishest
composition. If such a work must be done, I wish some tolerable hand would undertake it; and
that we would not suffer a little whiffling Frenchman to neglect his trade of teaching his
language to our children, and presume to instruct foreigners in our politics.

[Footnote 1: No. 41 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Horace, "Satires," II. i. 41-2.
          "Safe it lies
Within the sheath, till villains round me rise."--P. FRANCIS.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: See No. 40, ante, and note, p. 259. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: In "A Discourse of the Contests and Dissensions ... Athens and Rome," 1701 (vol.
i., pp. 227-270, of present edition). See also Swift's reference to this pamphlet in his "Memoirs
Relating to that Change," etc. (vol. v., p. 379). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: "The Medley," under Maynwaring, with occasional help from Addison and Steele,
seems to have been published for the sole purpose of replying to the "Examiner." No. 40 (July
2nd, 1711) begins: "The 'Examiner' is grown so insipid and contemptible that my acquaintance
are offended at my troubling myself about him." No. 45 (the final number, August 6th, 1711)
expresses the writer's "deep concern" for the loss of his "dear friend 'The Examiner,' who
has at once left the world and me, quite unprovided for so great a blow." When the "Examiner"
was revived by W. Oldisworth in December, 1711, it was soon followed by a reappearance of "The
Medley." It started afresh with Numb. I. on March 3rd, 1712 (i.e. 1711/2), and continued until
August 4th, 1712, the date of the publication of Numb. XLV. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: See No. 16, ante, and note p. 85. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: The two paragraphs appeared in No. 32 of "The Medley," and the writer introduces
them by a reference to "praise and censure, which I choose out of all the rest, because it
only concerns the 'Examiner' to be well instructed in them, he having no other business but
to flatter the new m[inistry], and abuse the old." The first paragraph runs:

"In the first place, whenever any body would praise another, all he can say will have no weight
or effect, if it be not true or probable. If therefore, for example, my friend should take
it into his head to commend a man, for having been an instrument of great good to a nation,
when in truth that very person had brought that same nation under great difficulties, to say
no more; such ill-chosen flattery would be of no use or moment, nor add the least credit to
the person so commended. Or if he should take that occasion to revive any false and groundless
calumny upon other men, or another party of men; such an instance of impotent but inveterate
malice, would make him still appear more vile and contemptible. The reason of all which is,
that what he said was neither just, proper, nor real, and therefore must needs want the force
of true eloquence, which consists in nothing else but in well representing things as they really
are. I advise therefore my friend, before he praises any more of his heroes, to learn the common
rules of writing; and particularly to read over and over a certain chapter in Aristotle's first
book of Rhetoric, where are given very proper and necessary directions, for praising a man
who has done nothing that he ought to be praised for."

There is no reference here to the Speaker. The reference is to the "Examiner"; nor is there
any mention of Providence having wonderfully preserved him from some unparalleled attempts.

The second paragraph runs:

"But the ancients did not think it enough for men to speak what was true or probable, they
required further that their orators should be heartily in earnest; and that they should have
all those motions and affections in their own minds which they endeavoured to raise in others.
He that thinks, says Cicero, to warm others with his eloquence, must first be warm himself.
And Quintilian says, We must first be affected ourselves, before we can move others. This made
Pliny's panegyric upon Trajan so well received by his hearers, because every body knew the
wonderful esteem and affection which he had for the person he commended: and therefore, when
he concluded with a prayer to Jupiter, that he would take care of the life and safety of that
great and good man, which he said contained in it all other blessings; though the expression
was so high, it passed very well with those that heard him, as being agreeable to the known
sentiments and affection of the speaker. Whereas, if my friend should be known to bear ill-will
to another person, or to have an extreme bad opinion of him, or to think him an abstractor
of those fine measures he would bring about, and should yet in one of his panegyrics pray to
God for the continuance of that very person's life, as 'an invaluable blessing'; such a fulsome
piece of insincerity would only expose him to shame and derision." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: The House of Commons resolved on April 11th, that the Speaker should congratulate
Mr. Harley when he was able to attend the House. This was done on April 26th. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: The House of Commons, on April 27th, ordered, "That Mr. Speaker be desired to
print his congratulatory speech ... with the Answer of Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer to the
same." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: The Speaker thanks God that Harley's enemies had "not been able to accomplish
what their inveterate, but impotent, malice, had designed." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: The Speaker prayed that Providence might "continue still to preserve so invaluable
a life." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: Harley was appointed lord treasurer, May 30th, 1711, and created Earl of Oxford,
May 23rd. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 13: Abel Boyer (1667-1729), author of a French dictionary, a French grammar, "History
of William III.," "History of Queen Anne," "The Political State," "The Post Boy" (1705-9),
and many other works. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: "The Political State of Great Britain" was started in January, 1710/1, and continued
monthly until 1740. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 15: See No. 33, ante, and note, p. 207. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 16: Boyer appeared before the House of Lords, March 6th, 1710/1, and owned that he
was the compiler of "The Political State of Great Britain." He was kept in custody till March
12th, when he was reprimanded, and discharged after he had paid his fees. His offence was that
"an account is pretended to be given of the Debates and Proceedings of this House" ("Journals
of House of Lords," xix). The third number of "The Political State," Boyer issued on March
17th, giving his reason for the delay in its appearance: "An unavoidable and unvoluntary avocation,
of which I may give you an account hereafter, has obliged me to write to you a fortnight later
than usual." [T.S.]]

NUMB. 43.[1]

FROM THURSDAY MAY 17, TO THURSDAY MAY 24, 1711.

  Delicta majorum immeritus lues,
  Romane; donec templa refeceris,
      Aedesque labentes deorum----[2]

Several letters have been lately sent me, desiring I would make honourable mention of the pious
design of building fifty churches, in several parts of London and Westminster, where they are
most wanted; occasioned by an address of the convocation to the Queen,[3] and recommended by
her Majesty to the House of Commons; who immediately promised, they would enable her "to accomplish
so excellent a design," and are now preparing a Bill accordingly. I thought to have deferred
any notice of this important affair till the end of this session; at which time I proposed
to deliver a particular account of the great and useful things already performed by this present
Parliament. But in compliance to those who give themselves the trouble of advising me; and
partly convinced by the reasons they offer; I am content to bestow a paper upon a subject,
that indeed so well deserves it.

The clergy, and whoever else have a true concern for the constitution of the Church, cannot
but be highly pleased with one prospect in this new scene of public affairs. They may very
well remember the time, when every session of Parliament, was like a cloud hanging over their
heads; and if it happened to pass without bursting into some storm upon the Church, we thanked
God, and thought it an happy escape till the next meeting; upon which we resumed our secret
apprehensions, though we were not allowed to believe any danger. Things are now altered; the
Parliament takes the necessities of the Church into consideration, receives the proposals of
the clergy met in convocation, and amidst all the exigencies of a long expensive war, and under
the pressure of heavy debts, finds a supply for erecting fifty edifices for the service of
God. And it appears by the address of the Commons to her Majesty upon this occasion (wherein
they discovered a true spirit of religion) that the applying the money granted "to accomplish
so excellent a design,"[4] would, in their opinion, be the most effectual way of carrying on
the war; that it would (to use their own words) "be a means of drawing down blessings on her
Majesty's undertakings, as it adds to the number of those places, where the prayers of her
devout and faithful subjects, will be daily offered up to God, for the prosperity of her government
at home, and the success of her arms abroad."

I am sometimes hoping, that we are not naturally so bad a people, as we have appeared for some
years past. Faction, in order to support itself, is generally forced to make use of such abominable
instruments, that as long as it prevails, the genius of a nation is overpressed, and cannot
appear to exert itself: but when that is broke and suppressed, when things return to the old
course, mankind will naturally fall to act from principles of reason and religion. The Romans,
upon a great victory, or escape from public danger, frequently built a temple in honour of
some god, to whose peculiar favour they imputed their success or delivery: and sometimes the
general did the like, at his own expense, to acquit himself of some pious vow he had made.
How little of any thing resembling this hath been done by us after all our victories! and perhaps
for that reason, among others, they have turned to so little account. But what could we expect?
We acted all along as if we believed nothing of a God or His providence; and therefore it was
consistent to offer up our edifices only to those, whom we looked upon as givers of all victory,
in His stead.

I have computed, that fifty churches may be built by a medium, at six thousand pound for a
church; which is somewhat under the price of a subject's palace: yet perhaps the care of above
two hundred thousand souls, with the benefit of their prayers for the prosperity of their Queen
and country, may be almost put in the balance with the domestic convenience, or even magnificence
of any subject whatsoever.

Sir William Petty, who under the name of Captain Graunt, published some observations upon bills
of mortality about five years after the Restoration;[5] tells us, the parishes in London, were
even then so unequally divided, that some were two hundred times larger than others. Since
that time, the increase of trade, the frequency of Parliaments, the desire of living in the
metropolis, together with that genius for building, which began after the fire, and hath ever
since continued, have prodigiously enlarged this town on all sides, where it was capable of
increase; and those tracts of land built into streets, have generally continued of the same
parish they belonged to, while they lay in fields; so that the care of above thirty thousand
souls, hath been sometimes committed to one minister, whose church would hardly contain the
twentieth part of his flock: neither, I think, was any family in those parishes obliged to
pay above a groat a year to their spiritual pastor. Some few of those parishes have been since
divided; in others were erected chapels of ease, where a preacher is maintained by general
contribution. Such poor shifts and expedients, to the infinite shame and scandal, of so vast
and flourishing a city, have been thought sufficient for the service of God and religion; as
if they were circumstances wholly indifferent.

This defect, among other consequences of it, hath made schism a sort of necessary evil, there
being at least three hundred thousand inhabitants in this town, whom the churches would not
be able to contain, if the people were ever so well disposed: and in a city not overstocked
with zeal, the only way to preserve any degree of religion, is to make all attendance upon
the duties of it, as easy and cheap as possible: whereas on the contrary, in the larger parishes,
the press is so great, and the pew-keeper's tax so exorbitant, that those who love to save
trouble and money, either stay at home, or retire to the conventicles. I believe there are
few examples in any Christian country of so great a neglect for religion; and the dissenting
teachers have made their advantages largely by it, "sowing tares among the wheat while men
slept;" being much more expert at procuring contributions, which is a trade they are bred up
in, than men of a liberal education.

And to say truth, the way practised by several parishes in and about this town, of maintaining
their clergy by voluntary subscriptions, is not only an indignity to the character, but hath
many pernicious consequences attending it; such a precarious dependence, subjecting a clergyman,
who hath not more than ordinary spirit and resolution, to many inconveniences, which are obvious
to imagine: but this defect will, no doubt, be remedied by the wisdom and piety of the present
Parliament; and a tax laid upon every house in a parish, for the support of their pastor. Neither
indeed can it be conceived, why a house, whose purchase is not reckoned above one-third less
than land of the same yearly rent, should not pay a twentieth part annually (which is half
tithe) to the support of the minister. One thing I could wish, that in fixing the maintenance
to the several ministers in these new intended parishes, no determinate sum of money may be
named, which in all perpetuities ought by any means to be avoided; but rather a tax in proportion
to the rent of each house, though it be but a twentieth or even a thirtieth part. The contrary
of this, I am told, was done in several parishes of the city after the fire; where the incumbent
and his successors were to receive for ever a certain sum; for example, one or two hundred
pounds a year. But the lawgivers did not consider, that what we call at present, one hundred
pounds, will, in process of time, have not the intrinsic value of twenty; as twenty pounds
now are hardly equal to forty shillings, three hundred years ago. There are a thousand instances
of this all over England, in reserved rents applied to hospitals, in old chiefries, and even
among the clergy themselves, in those payments which, I think, they call a modus.[6]

As no prince had ever better dispositions than her present Majesty, for the advancement of
true religion, so there was never any age that produced greater occasions to employ them on.
It is an unspeakable misfortune, that any designs of so excellent a Queen, should be checked
by the necessities of a long and ruinous war, which the folly or corruption of modern politicians
have involved us in, against all the maxims whereby our country flourished so many hundred
years: else her Majesty's care of religion would certainly have reached even to her American
plantations. Those noble countries, stocked by numbers from hence, whereof too many are in
no very great reputation for faith or morals, will be a perpetual reproach to us, till some
better care is taken for cultivating Christianity among them. If the governors of those several
colonies were obliged, at certain times, to transmit an exact representation of the state of
religion, in their several districts; and the legislature here would, in a time of leisure,
take that affair under their consideration, it might be perfected with little difficulty, and
be a great addition to the glories of her Majesty's reign.

But to waive further speculations upon so remote a scene, while we have subjects enough to
employ them on at home; it is to be hoped, the clergy will not let slip any proper opportunity
of improving the pious dispositions of the Queen and kingdom, for the advantage of the Church;
when by the example of times past, they consider how rarely such conjunctures are like to happen.
What if some method were thought on towards repairing of churches? for which there is like
to be too frequent occasions, those ancient Gothic structures, throughout this kingdom, going
every year to decay. That expedient of repairing or rebuilding them by charitable collections,
seems in my opinion not very suitable, either to the dignity and usefulness of the work, or
to the honour of our country; since it might be so easily done, with very little charge to
the public, in a much more decent and honourable manner, while Parliaments are so frequently
called. But these and other regulations must be left to a time of peace, which I shall humbly
presume to wish may soon be our share, however offensive it may be to any, either abroad or
at home, who are gainers by the war.

[Footnote 1: No. 42 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Horace, "Odes," III. vi. 1-3.

  "Those ills your ancestors have done,
   Romans, are now become your own;
   And they will cost you dear,
   Unless you soon repair
   The falling temples which the gods provoke."

  EARL OF ROSCOMMON (1672). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: The minister and churchwardens of Greenwich applied to the House of Commons on
February 14th, 1710/1, for aid in the rebuilding of their church. The House referred the application
to a committee. On February 28th the lower house of Convocation sent a deputation to the Speaker
expressing their satisfaction at what had been done. On his reporting this to the House on
the following day, they expressed their readiness to receive information. The lower house of
Convocation prepared a scheme and presented it to the Speaker on March 9th; this was referred
to the committee on the 10th. Acting on a hint received from the court, the bishops and clergy
presented an Address to the Queen on March 26th, and this was followed by a Message from Her
Majesty, on the 29th, to the House of Commons, recommending that Parliament should undertake
"the great and necessary work of building more churches." On April 9th the House of Commons
replied in an Address, promising to make provision, and resolved, on May 1st, to grant a supply
for building fifty new churches in or about London and Westminster. On May 8th it fixed the
amount at a sum "not exceeding £350,000." In pursuance of this a Bill was introduced on May
18th, which received the Royal Assent on June 12th (9 Ann. c. 17). This Bill granted £350,000
(to be raised by a duty on coals) for building fifty new churches in London and Westminster.

In this connection it is interesting to remember that Swift, two years before, had recommended
the building of more churches as part of his suggestions for "the advancement of religion."
See his "Project for the Advancement of Religion" (vol. iii., p. 45 of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: "Natural and Political Observations ... upon the Bills of Mortality." By John
Graunt, 1662. The writer says in chap. x. that Cripplegate parish was two hundred times as
big as some of the parishes in the city. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: An abbreviation of modus decimandi, a composition in lieu of payment of tithes.
[T.S.]]

NUMB. 44.[1]

FROM THURSDAY MAY 24, TO THURSDAY MAY 31, 1711.

  Scilicet, ut possem curvo dignoscere rectum.[2]

Having been forced in my papers to use the cant-words of Whig and Tory, which have so often
varied their significations, for twenty years past; I think it necessary to say something of
the several changes those two terms have undergone since that period; and then to tell the
reader what I have always understood by each of them, since I undertook this work. I reckon
that these sorts of conceited appellations, are usually invented by the vulgar; who not troubling
themselves to examine through the merits of a cause, are consequently the most violent partisans
of what they espouse; and in their quarrels, usually proceed to their beloved argument of calling
names, till at length they light upon one which is sure to stick; and in time, each party grows
proud of that appellation, which their adversaries at first intended for a reproach. Of this
kind were the Prasini and Veneti,[3] the Guelfs and Ghibellines,[4] Huguenots and Papists,
Roundheads and Cavaliers,[5] with many others, of ancient and modern date. Among us of late
there seems to have been a barrenness of invention in this point, the words Whig and Tory,[6]
though they are not much above thirty years old, having been pressed to the service of many
successions of parties, with very different ideas fastened to them. This distinction, I think,
began towards the latter part of King Charles the Second's reign, was dropped during that of
his successor, and then revived at the Revolution, since which it has perpetually flourished,
though applied to very different kinds of principles and persons. In that Convention of Lords
and Commons,[7] some of both Houses were for a regency to the Prince of Orange, with a reservation
of style and title to the absent king, which should be made use of in all public acts. Others,
when they were brought to allow the throne vacant, thought the succession should immediately
go to the next heir, according to the fundamental laws of the kingdom, as if the last king
were actually dead. And though the dissenting lords (in whose House the chief opposition was)
did at last yield both those points, took the oaths to the new king, and many of them employments,
yet they were looked upon with an evil eye by the warm zealots of the other side; neither did
the court ever heartily favour any of them, though some were of the most eminent for abilities
and virtue, and served that prince, both in his councils and his army, with untainted faith.
It was apprehended, at the same time, and perhaps it might have been true, that many of the
clergy would have been better pleased with that scheme of a regency, or at least an uninterrupted
lineal succession, for the sake of those whose consciences were truly scrupulous; and they
thought there were some circumstances, in the case of the deprived bishops,[8] that looked
a little hard, or at least deserved commiseration.

These, and other the like reflections did, as I conceive, revive the denominations of Whig
and Tory.

Some time after the Revolution the distinction of high and low-church came in, which was raised
by the Dissenters, in order to break the Church party, by dividing the members into high and
low; and the opinions raised, that the high joined with the Papists, inclined the low to fall
in with the Dissenters.

And here I shall take leave to produce some principles, which in the several periods of the
late reign, served to denote a man of one or the other party. To be against a standing army
in time of peace, was all high-church, Tory and Tantivy.[9] To differ from a majority of b[isho]ps
was the same. To raise the prerogative above law for serving a turn, was low-church and Whig.
The opinion of the majority in the House of Commons, especially of the country-party or landed
interest, was high-flying[10] and rank Tory. To exalt the king's supremacy beyond all precedent,
was low-church, Whiggish and moderate. To make the least doubt of the pretended prince being
supposititious, and a tiler's son, was, in their phrase, "top and topgallant," and perfect
Jacobitism. To resume the most exorbitant grants, that were ever given to a set of profligate
favourites, and apply them to the public, was the very quintessence of Toryism; notwithstanding
those grants were known to be acquired, by sacrificing the honour and the wealth of England.

In most of these principles, the two parties seem to have shifted opinions, since their institution
under King Charles the Second, and indeed to have gone very different from what was expected
from each, even at the time of the Revolution. But as to that concerning the Pretender, the
Whigs have so far renounced it, that they are grown the great advocates for his legitimacy:
which gives me the opportunity of vindicating a noble d[uke] who was accused of a blunder in
the House, when upon a certain lord's mentioning the pretended Prince, his g[race] told the
lords, he "must be plain with them, and call that person, not the pretended prince, but the
pretended impostor:" which was so far from a blunder in that polite l[or]d, as his ill-willers
give out, that it was only a refined way of delivering the avowed sentiments of his whole party.

But to return, this was the state of principles when the Qu[een] came to the crown; some time
after which, it pleased certain great persons, who had been all their lives in the altitude
of Tory-profession, to enter into a treaty with the Whigs, from whom they could get better
terms than from their old friends, who began to be resty, and would not allow monopolies of
power and favour; nor consent to carry on the war entirely at the expense of this nation, that
they might have pensions from abroad; while another people, more immediately concerned in the
war, traded with the enemy as in times of peace. Whereas, the other party, whose case appeared
then as desperate, was ready to yield to any conditions that would bring them into play. And
I cannot help affirming, that this nation was made a sacrifice to the immeasurable appetite
of power and wealth in a very few, that shall be nameless, who in every step they made, acted
directly against what they had always professed. And if his Royal Highness the Prince[11] had
died some years sooner (who was a perpetual check in their career) it is dreadful to think
how far they might have proceeded. And therefore, whatever I have affirmed of Whigs in any
of these papers, or objected against them, ought to be understood, either of those who were
partisans of the late men in power, and privy to their designs; or such who joined with them,
from a hatred to our monarchy and Church, as unbelievers and Dissenters of all sizes; or men
in office, who had been guilty of much corruption, and dreaded a change; which would not only
put a stop to further abuses for the future, but might, perhaps, introduce examinations of
what was past. Or those who had been too highly obliged, to quit their supporters with any
common decency. Or lastly, the money-traders, who could never hope to make their markets so
well of premiums and exorbitant interest, and high remittances, under any other administration.

Under these heads, may be reduced the whole body of those whom I have all along understood
for Whigs: for I do not include within this number, any of those who have been misled by ignorance,
or seduced by plausible pretences, to think better of that sort of men than they deserve, and
to apprehend mighty danger from their disgrace: because, I believe, the greatest part of such
well-meaning people, are now thoroughly converted.

And indeed, it must be allowed, that those two fantastic names of Whig and Tory, have at present
very little relation to those opinions, which were at first thought to distinguish them. Whoever
formerly professed himself to approve the Revolution, to be against the Pretender, to justify
the succession in the house of Hanover, to think the British monarchy not absolute, but limited
by laws, which the executive power could not dispense with, and to allow an indulgence to scrupulous
consciences; such a man was content to be called a Whig. On the other side, whoever asserted
the Queen's hereditary right; that the persons of princes were sacred; their lawful authority
not to be resisted on any pretence; nor even their usurpations, without the most extreme necessity:
that breaches in the succession were highly dangerous; that schism was a great evil, both in
itself and its consequences; that the ruin of the Church, would probably be attended with that
of the State; that no power should be trusted with those who are not of the established religion;
such a man was usually called a Tory. Now, though the opinions of both these are very consistent,
and I really think are maintained at present by a great majority of the kingdom; yet, according
as men apprehend the danger greater, either from the Pretender and his party, or from the violence
and cunning of other enemies to the constitution; so their common discourses and reasonings,
turn either to the first or second set of these opinions I have mentioned, and are consequently
styled either Whigs or Tories. Which is, as if two brothers apprehended their house would be
set upon, but disagreed about the place from whence they thought the robbers would come, and
therefore would go on different sides to defend it. They must needs weaken and expose themselves
by such a separation; and so did we, only our case was worse: for in order to keep off a weak,
remote enemy, from whom we could not suddenly apprehend any danger, we took a nearer and a
stronger one into the house. I make no comparison at all between the two enemies: Popery and
slavery are without doubt the greatest and most dreadful of any; but I may venture to affirm,
that the fear of these, have not, at least since the Revolution, been so close and pressing
upon us, as that from another faction; excepting only one short period, when the leaders of
that very faction, invited the abdicating king to return; of which I have formerly taken notice.

Having thus declared what sort of persons I have always meant, under the denomination of Whigs,
it will be easy to shew whom I understand by Tories.

By these descriptions of Whig and Tory, I am sensible those names are given to several persons
very undeservedly; and that many a man is called by one or the other, who has not the least
title to the blame or praise I have bestowed on each of them throughout my papers.

[Footnote 1: No. 43 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Horace, "Epistles," II. ii. 44.
"Fair truth from falsehood to discern."--P. FRANCIS.
 [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: There were four factions, or parties, distinguished by their colours, which contended
in the ancient circus at Constantinople. The white and the red were the most ancient. In the
sixth century the dissension between the green (or Prasini) and the blue (or Veneti) was so
violent, that 40,000 men were killed, and the factions were abolished from that time. See also
Gibbon's "Rome," chap. xl. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: The Guelfs were the Papal and popular party in Italy, and the Ghibellines were
the imperial and aristocratic. It is said that these names were first used as war cries at
the battle of Weinsberg in 1140. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: These terms came into use about 1641. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: Writing under date, 1681, Burnet says "At this time the distinguishing names of
Whig and Tory came to be the denominations of the parties" ("Hist. Own Times," i. 499) [T.S.]

Whig a more was a nick name given to the western peasantry of Scotland, from then using the
words frequently in driving strings of horses. Hence, as connected with Calvinistical principles
in religion, and republican doctrines in policy, it was given as a term of reproach to the
opposition party in the latter years of Charles II. These retorted upon the courtiers the word
Tory, signifying an Irish free-booter, and particularly applicable to the Roman Catholic followers
of the Duke of York. [S]

Macaulay's explanation of the origin of these two terms is somewhat different from that given
by Scott. ("History of England," vol. i, chap. ii) [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: The Convention was summoned by the Prince of Orange in December, 1688. After a
lengthened debate they resolved, on February 12th, 1688/9, that the Prince and Princess of
Orange should "be declared King and Queen." The Sovereigns were proclaimed on February 13th,
and on the 20th the Convention was voted a Parliament. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: The bishops who were deprived for refusing to take the oath of allegiance to King
William were: Sancroft, the Archbishop of Canterbury; Ken, Bishop of Bath; White, Bishop of
Peterborough; Turner, Bishop of Ely; Frampton, Bishop of Gloucester; and Lloyd, Bishop of Norwich.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: Writing to Stella, under date October 10th, 1711, Swift complains that "The Protestant
Post-Boy" says "that an ambitious tantivy, missing of his towering hopes of preferment in Ireland,
is come over to vent his spleen on the late ministry," etc. (vol. ii., p. 258, of present edition).
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: "The most virtuous and pious enemy to their wicked principles [i.e., to those
of the Calves-Head Club] is always cried down as a high-flyer, a Papist, and a traitor to his
country" ("Secret History of the Calves-Head Club," 7th edit., 1709). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: Prince George of Denmark died October 28th, 1708. [T.S.]]

NUMB. 45.[1]

FROM THURSDAY MAY 31, TO THURSDAY JUNE 7, 1711.[2]

  Magna vis est, magnum nomen, unum et idem sentieritis Senatus.[3]

Whoever calls to mind the clamour and the calumny, the artificial fears and jealousies, the
shameful misrepresentation of persons and of things, that were raised and spread by the leaders
and instruments of a certain party, upon the change of the last ministry, and dissolution of
Parliament; if he be a true lover of his country, must feel a mighty pleasure, though mixed
with some indignation, to see the wishes, the conjectures, the endeavours, of an inveterate
faction entirely disappointed; and this important period wholly spent, in restoring the prerogative
to the prince, liberty to the subject, in reforming past abuses, preventing future, supplying
old deficiencies, providing for debts, restoring the clergy to their rights, and taking care
of the necessities of the Church: and all this unattended with any of those misfortunes which
some men hoped for, while they pretended to fear.

For my own part, I must confess, the difficulties appeared so great to me, from such a noise
and shew of opposition, that I thought nothing but the absolute necessity of affairs, could
ever justify so daring an attempt. But, a wise and good prince, at the head of an able ministry,
and of a senate freely chosen; all united to pursue the true interest of their country, is
a power, against which, the little inferior politics of any faction, will be able to make no
long resistance. To this we may add one additional strength, which in the opinion of our adversaries,
is the greatest and justest of any; I mean the vox populi, so indisputably declarative on the
same side. I am apt to think, when these discarded politicians begin seriously to consider
all this, they will think it proper to give out, and reserve their wisdom for some more convenient
juncture.

It was pleasant enough to observe, that those who were the chief instruments of raising the
noise, who started fears, bespoke dangers, and formed ominous prognostics, in order scare the
allies, to spirit the French, and fright ignorant people at home; made use of those very opinions
themselves had broached, for arguments to prove, that the change of ministers was dangerous
and unseasonable. But if a house be swept, the more occasion there is for such a work, the
more dust it will raise; if it be going to ruin, the repairs, however necessary, will make
a noise, and disturb the neighbourhood a while. And as to the rejoicings made in France,[4]
if it be true, that they had any, upon the news of those alterations among us; their joy was
grounded upon the same hopes with that of the Whigs, who comforted themselves, that a change
of ministry and Parliament, would infallibly put us all into confusion, increase our divisions,
and destroy our credit; wherein, I suppose, by this time they are equally undeceived.

But this long session, being in a manner ended,[5] which several circumstances, and one accident,
altogether unforeseen, have drawn out beyond the usual time; it may be some small piece of
justice to so excellent an assembly, barely to mention a few of those great things they have
done for the service of their QUEEN and country; which I shall take notice of, just as they
come to my memory.

The credit of the nation began mightily to suffer by a discount upon exchequer bills, which
have been generally reckoned the surest and most sacred of all securities. The present lord
treasurer, then a member of the House of Commons, proposed a method, which was immediately
complied with, of raising them to a par with specie;[6] and so they have ever since continued.

The British colonies of Nevis and St. Christopher's,[7] had been miserably plundered by the
French, their houses burnt, their plantations destroyed, and many of the inhabitants carried
away prisoners: they had often, for some years past, applied in vain for relief from hence;
till the present Parliament, considering their condition as a case of justice and mercy, voted
them one hundred thousand pound by way of recompense, in some manner, for their sufferings.

Some persons, whom the voice of the nation authorizes me to call her enemies, taking advantage
of the general Naturalization Act, had invited over a great number of foreigners of all religions,
under the name of Palatines;[8] who understood no trade or handicraft, yet rather chose to
beg than labour;[9] who besides infesting our streets, bred contagious diseases, by which we
lost in natives, thrice the number of what we gained in foreigners. The House of Commons, as
a remedy against this evil, brought in a bill for repealing that Act of general Naturalization,
which, to the surprise of most people, was rejected by the L[or]ds.[10] And upon this occasion,
I must allow myself to have been justly rebuked by one of my weekly monitors, for pretending
in a former paper, to hope that law would be repealed; wherein the Commons being disappointed,
took care however to send many of the Palatines away, and to represent their being invited
over, as a pernicious counsel.[11]

The Qualification Bill,[12] incapacitating all men to serve in Parliament, who have not some
estate in land, either in possession or certain reversion, is perhaps the greatest security
that ever was contrived for preserving the constitution, which otherwise might, in a little
time, lie wholly at the mercy of the moneyed interest: And since much the greatest part of
the taxes is paid, either immediately from land, or from the productions of it, it is but common
justice, that those who are the proprietors, should appoint what portion of it ought to go
to the support of the public; otherwise, the engrossers of money, would be apt to lay heavy
loads on others, which themselves never touch with one of their fingers.

The public debts were so prodigiously increased, by the negligence and corruption of those
who had been managers of the revenue; that the late m[iniste]rs, like careless men, who run
out their fortunes, were so far from any thoughts of payment, as they had not the courage to
state or compute them. The Parliament found that thirty-five millions had never been accounted
for; and that the debt on the navy, wholly unprovided for, amounted to nine millions.[13] The
late chancellor of the exchequer, suitable to his transcendent genius for public affairs, proposed
a fund to be security for that immense debt, which is now confirmed by a law, and is likely
to prove the greatest restoration and establishment of the kingdom's credit.[14] Nor content
with this, the legislature hath appointed commissioners of accompts, to inspect into past mismanagements
of the public money, and prevent them for the future.[15]

I have, in a former paper, mentioned the Act for building fifty new Churches in London and
Westminster,[16] with a fund appropriated for that pious and noble work. But while I am mentioning
acts of piety, it would be unjust to conceal my lord high treasurer's concern for religion,
which have extended even to another kingdom: his lordship having some months ago, obtained
of her Majesty a remission of the first-fruits and tenths to the clergy of Ireland,[17] as
he is known to have formerly done for that reverend body in this kingdom.

The Act for carrying on a Trade to the South-Sea,[18] proposed by the same great person, whose
thoughts are perpetually employed, and always with success, on the good of his country, will,
in all probability, if duly executed, be of mighty advantage to the kingdom, and an everlasting
honour to the present Parliament.[19]

I might go on further, and mention that seasonable law against excessive gaming;[20] the putting
a stop to that scandalous fraud of false musters in the Guards;[21] the diligent and effectual
enquiry made by the Commons into several gross abuses.[22] I might produce many instances of
their impartial justice in deciding controverted election, against former example, and great
provocations to retaliate.[23] I might shew their cheerful readiness in granting such vast
supplies; their great unanimity, not to be broken by all the arts of a malicious and cunning
faction; their unfeigned duty to the QUEEN; and lastly, that representation made to her Majesty
from the House of Commons, discovering such a spirit and disposition in that noble assembly,
to redress all those evils, which a long mal-administration had brought upon us.[24]

It is probable, that trusting only to my memory, I may have omitted many things of great importance;
neither do I pretend further in the compass of this paper, than to give the world some general,
however imperfect idea, how worthily this great assembly hath discharged the trust of those
who so freely chose them; and what we may reasonably hope and expect from the piety, courage,
wisdom, and loyalty of such excellent patriots, in a time so fruitful of occasions to exert
the greatest abilities.

And now I conceive the main design I had in writing these papers, is fully executed. A great
majority of the nation is at length thoroughly convinced, that the Qu[een] proceeded with the
highest wisdom, in changing her ministry and Parliament. That under a former administration,
the greatest abuses of all kinds were committed, and the most dangerous attempts against the
constitution for some time intended. The whole kingdom finds the present persons in power,
directly and openly pursuing the true service of their QUEEN and country; and to be such whom
their most bitter enemies cannot tax with bribery, covetousness, ambition, pride, insolence,
or any pernicious principles in religion or government.

For my own particular, those little barking pens which have so constantly pursued me, I take
to be of no further consequence to what I have writ, than the scoffing slaves of old, placed
behind the chariot, to put the general in mind of his mortality;[25] which was but a thing
of form, and made no stop or disturbance in the shew. However, if those perpetual snarlers
against me, had the same design, I must own they have effectually compassed it; since nothing
can well be more mortifying, than to reflect that I am of the same species with creatures capable
of uttering so much scurrility, dullness, falsehood and impertinence, to the scandal and disgrace
of human nature.

[Footnote 1: No. 44 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: To Stella, about this time, Swift wrote giving a decided hint of the end of his
term on "The Examiner." Under date June 7th, 1711, he says: "As for the 'Examiner,' I have
heard a whisper, that after that of this day, which tells what this Parliament has done, you
will hardly find them so good. I prophesy they will be trash for the future; and methinks in
this day's 'Examiner' the author talks doubtfully, as if he would write no more" (vol. ii.,
pp. 192-3 of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: "Great is the power, great the name, of a Senate which is unanimous in its opinions."--H.T.
RILEY, [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: See No. 24, ante, and note on p. 145. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: The session did not actually close till June 12th. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: The House of Commons had resolved on January 16th, 1710/1, to provide for converting
all non-specie exchequer bills into specie. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: The Act for licensing and regulating hackney coaches, etc. (9 Ann. c. 16) provided
that a sum of £103,003 11s. 4d. should be distributed among those proprietors and inhabitants
of Nevis and St. Christopher's who had suffered "very great losses by a late invasion of the
French." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: See note on p. 264. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: A petition was presented to the House of Commons on January 15th, 1710/1, against
the Palatines as likely to spread disease and to become chargeable to the parish. [T.S.]

The exactions of the French armies in the Palatinate, in the year 1709, drove from their habitations
six or seven thousand persons of all descriptions and professions, who came into Holland with
a view of emigrating to British America. It was never accurately ascertained, with what view,
or by whose persuasions, their course was changed, but, by direction from the English ministers,
they were furnished with shipping to come to England. In the settlements, they would have been
a valuable colony; but in the vicinity of London, this huge accession to the poor of the metropolis
was a burthen and a nuisance. They were encamped on Blackheath, near Greenwich, where, so soon
as their countrymen heard that they were supported by British charity, the number of the fugitives
began to increase by recruits from the Continent, till government prohibited further importation.
A general Naturalization Act, passed in favour of the French Protestants, greatly encouraged
this influx of strangers. This matter was inquired into by the Tory Parliament, who voted,
that the bringing over the Palatines was an oppression on the nation, and a waste of the public
money, and that he who advised it was an enemy to his country. The unfortunate fugitives had
been already dispersed; some of them to North America, some to Ireland, and some through Britain.
The pretence alleged for the vote against them, was the apprehension expressed by the guardians
of the poor in several parishes, that they might introduce contagious diseases; but the real
reason was a wish to gratify the prejudice of the common people against foreigners, and to
dimmish the number of Dissenters. [S.]]

[Footnote 10: See No. 26, ante, and note on p. 160. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: On the invitation of the lord lieutenant 3,000 Palatines were sent into Ireland
in August, 1709, and 800 in the following February. Many of them subsequently returned to England
in the hope that they would be sent to Carolina. Large numbers had been brought to England
from Holland at the Queen's expense, after the passing of the Naturalization Act. The government
spent £22,275 in transporting 3,300 of them to New York and establishing them there, undertaking
to maintain them until they could provide for themselves. These sums were to be repaid within
four years. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: See No. 35, ante, and note on p. 225. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 13: See No. 41, ante, and note on p. 264. The debt on the navy is a portion of the
thirty-five millions referred to. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: Harley proposed a scheme, on May 2nd, 1711, by which all public and national
debts and deficiencies were to be satisfied. Resolutions were passed on May 3rd, and a Bill
brought in on the 17th, which was the origin of the celebrated South Sea scheme referred to
later in the text. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 15: The Bill for examining the Public Accounts (9 Ann. c. 18) became law on May 16th.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 16: See No. 43, ante, pp. 278 et seq. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 17: On August 15th, 1711, Swift wrote to Archbishop King: "He [the lord treasurer]
told me, 'he had lately received a letter from the bishops of Ireland, subscribed (as I remember)
by seventeen, acknowledging his favour about the first-fruits'" (Scott's edition, xv. 465). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 18: The South Sea Company was established in pursuance of the Act 9 Ann. c. 15. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 19: The disastrous results of the South Sea scheme, when the company failed in 1720-21,
are matter of history. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 20: A Bill for the better preventing of Excessive and Deceitful Gaming, was introduced
January 25th, 1710/1, passed April 11th, and obtained the Royal Assent, May 16th (9 Ann. c.
19). A similar bill, which had passed the House of Commons in 1709/10, was dropped in the House
of Lords. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 21: A committee of the House of Commons was appointed, on February 5th, 1710/1 to
inquire into alleged false musters in the Guards. A petition was presented to the House on
February 13th, complaining that tradesmen were listed in Her Majesty's Guards "to screen and
protect them from their creditors." A clause was inserted in the Recruiting Bill to remedy
this evil (10 Ann. c. 12; see sec. 39), and the House passed a strong resolution against the
practice, on May 26th, when considering the report of the committee. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 22: The House of Commons, on June 4th, presented a representation to the Queen on
mismanagements and abuses. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 23: A large number of petitions to the House of Commons concerning controverted elections
had been considered in December, 1710. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 24: Towards the close of the very long representation addressed to the Queen on June
4th, the Commons said: "We ... beseech your Majesty ... that you would employ in places of
authority and trust such only, as have given good testimonies of their duty to your Majesty,
and of their affection to the true interest of your kingdom." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 25: In a Roman triumph a slave accompanied the victorious general to whisper in his
ear: "Remember that thou art but a man." [T.S.]]

NUMB. 46.[1]

FROM THURSDAY JUNE 7, TO THURSDAY JUNE 14, 1711.[2]

  Melius non tangere clamo.[3]

When a general has conquered an army, and reduced a country to obedience, he often finds it
necessary to send out small bodies, in order to take in petty castles and forts, and beat little
straggling parties, which are otherwise, apt to make head and infest the neighbourhood: This
case exactly resembles mine; I count the main body of the Whigs entirely subdued; at least,
till they appear with new reinforcements, I shall reckon them as such; and therefore do now
find myself at leisure to Examine inferior abuses. The business I have left, is, to fall on
those wretches that will be still keeping the war on foot, when they have no country to defend,
no forces to bring into the field, nor any thing remaining, but their bare good-will towards
faction and mischief: I mean, the present set of writers, whom I have suffered, without molestation,
so long to infest the town. Were there not a concurrence from prejudice, party, weak understanding,
and misrepresentation, I should think them too inconsiderable in themselves to deserve correction:
But as my endeavour hath been to expose the gross impositions of the fallen party, I will give
a taste, in the following petition, of the sincerity of these their factors, to shew how little
those writers for the Whigs were guided by conscience or honour, their business being only
to gratify a prevailing interest.

"To the Right Honourable the present M[inist]ry, the humble Petition of the Party Writers to
the late M[inist]ry.

"HUMBLY SHEWETH,

"That your petitioners have served their time to the trade of writing pamphlets and weekly
papers, in defence of the Whigs, against the Church of England, and the Christian religion,
and her Majesty's prerogative, and her title to the crown: That since the late change of ministry,
and meeting of this Parliament, the said trade is mightily fallen off, and the call for the
said pamphlets and papers, much less than formerly; and it is feared, to our further prejudice,
that the 'Examiner' may discontinue writing, whereby some of your petitioners will be brought
to utter distress, forasmuch as through false quotations, noted absurdities, and other legal
abuses, many of your petitioners, to their great comfort and support, were enabled to pick
up a weekly subsistence out of the said 'Examiner.'

"That your said poor petitioners, did humbly offer your Honours to write in defence of the
late change of ministry and Parliament, much cheaper than they did for your predecessors, which
your Honours were pleased to refuse.

"Notwithstanding which offer, your petitioners are under daily apprehension, that your Honours
will forbid them to follow the said trade any longer; by which your petitioners, to the number
of fourscore, with their wives and families, will inevitably starve, having been bound to no
other calling.

"Your petitioners desire your Honours will tenderly consider the premisses, and suffer your
said petitioners to continue their trade (those who set them at work, being still willing to
employ them, though at lower rates) and your said petitioners will give security to make use
of the same stuff, and dress it in the same manner, as they always did, and no other. And your
petitioners" &c.

[Footnote 1: No. 45 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: In his "Journal to Stella," under date June 22nd, 1711, Swift writes: "Yesterday's
was a sad 'Examiner,' and last week was very indifferent, though, some little scraps of the
old spirit, as if he had given some hints; but yesterday's is all trash. It is plain the hand
is changed." (vol. ii., p, 195).

On November 2nd he gives the following account: "I have sent to Leigh the set of 'Examiners';
the first thirteen were written by several hands; some good, some bad; the next three-and-thirty
were all by one hand, that makes forty-six: then that author, whoever he was, laid it down
on purpose to confound guessers; and the last six were written by a woman" (vol. ii., p. 273).
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: Horace, "Satires," II. i. 45. "'Better not touch me, friend,' I loud exclaim."--P.
FRANCIS. [T.S.]]

CONTRIBUTION TO "THE SPECTATOR."

NOTE.

"THE SPECTATOR," projected by Steele, assisted and made famous by Addison, was first started
on March 1st, 1710/1, and continued to be issued daily until December 6th, 1712. An interval
of eighteen months then occurred, during six of which these two writers were busy with "The
Guardian." On June 18th, 1714, however, "The Spectator" was resumed, and appeared daily until
its final number on December 20th of that year. As with "The Tatler," so with "The Spectator,"
its success proved too great a temptation to be resisted; so that we find a spurious "Spectator"
also. This was begun on Monday, January 3rd, 1714/5, and concluded August 3rd of the same year.
Its sixty numbers (for it was issued twice a week) were afterwards published as "The Spectator,
volume ninth and last." The principal writer to this spurious edition was said to be Dr. George
Sewell.

Of the contributions to Steele's "Spectator," by far the greater number were written by the
projector and Addison. The other contributors were Eustace Budgell, John Hughes, John Byrom,
Henry Grove, Thomas Parnell, "Orator" Henley, Dr. Zachary Pearce, Philip Yorke, and a few others
whose identity is doubtful. Swift's contribution consisted of one paper only, and (probably)
a single paragraph in another. [T.S.]

THE SPECTATOR, NUMB. L.[1]

  Nunquam aliud natura, aliud sapientia dicit.
  JUV.[2]

FRIDAY, APRIL 27. 1711. 'Tis written by Mr. Steele, who seems to have gathered new life, and
have a new fund of wit; it is in the same nature as his 'Tatlers,' and they have all of them
had something pretty. I believe Addison and he club." On April 28th he writes again: "'The
Spectator' is written by Steele with Addison's help: 'tis often very pretty. Yesterday it was
made of a noble hint I gave him long ago for his 'Tatlers,' about an Indian supposed to write
his travels into England. I repent he ever had it. I intended to have written a book on that
subject. I believe he has spent it all in one paper, and all the under hints there are mine
too" (vol. ii., pp. 139 and 166 of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Juvenal, "Satires," xiv. 321.

    "Nature and wisdom never are at strife."--W. GIFFORD.

  [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: Steele's paper on the four Indian kings appeared in "The Tatler" for May 13th,
1710 (No. 171):--"Who can convince the world that four kings shall come over here, and He at
the Two Crowns and Cushion, and one of them fall sick, and the place be called King Street,
and all this by mere accident?"--The so-called kings were four Iroquois chiefs who came over
to see Queen Anne. The Queen saw them on April 19th, 1710. During their visit here Colonel
Schuyler and Colonel Francis Nicholson were appointed to attend them. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: They lodged over the shop of Mr. Arne--father of Dr. Arne and Mrs. Cibber--in
King Street, Covent Garden. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: The edition of 1712 has, "as the surface of a pebble." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: In "The Tatler" for February 4th, 1709/10 (No. 129), Steele prints a letter from
"Pasquin of Rome," in which he says: "It would also be very acceptable here to receive an account
of those two religious orders which are lately sprung up amongst you, the Whigs and the Tories,
with the points of doctrine, severities in discipline, penances, mortifications, and good works,
by which they differ one from another." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: The edition of 1712 has: "the persons of the greatest abilities among them." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: See "The Spectator," No. 81, and "The Examiner," No. 32. The "black spots" are
the patches ladies stuck on their faces. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: This paper is signed "C.", in the edition of 1712, which is one of the signatures
used by Addison. See, however, Swift's "Journal," quoted above. [T.S.]]

       *       *       *       *       *

[The following paragraph in "The Spectator," No. 575 Monday, August 2. 1714. is believed to
have been contributed by Swift.]

"The following question is started by one of the schoolmen.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO "THE INTELLIGENCER."

NOTE.

"THE INTELLIGENCER" was published in Dublin, commencing May 11th, 1728, and continued for nineteen
numbers. On June 12th, 1731, Swift, writing to Pope, gives some account of its inception, and
the amount of writing he did for it: "Two or three of us had a fancy, three years ago, to write
a weekly paper, and call it an 'Intelligencer.' But it continued not long; for the whole volume
(it was reprinted in London, and I find you have seen it) was the work only of two, myself,
and Dr. Sheridan. If we could have got some ingenious young man to have been the manager, who
should have published all that might be sent him, it might have continued longer, for there
were hints enough. But the printer here could not afford such a young man one farthing for
his trouble, the sale being so small, and the price one halfpenny; and so it dropped. In the
volume you saw, (to answer your questions,) the 1, 3, 5, 7, were mine. Of the 8th I writ only
the verses, (very uncorrect, but against a fellow we all hated [Richard Tighe],) the 9th mine,
the 10th only the verses, and of those not the four last slovenly lines; the 15th is a pamphlet
of mine printed before, with Dr. Sheridan's preface, merely for laziness, not to disappoint
the town: and so was the 19th, which contains only a parcel of facts relating purely to the
miseries of Ireland, and wholly useless and unentertaining" (Scott's edition, xvii. 375-6).

Of the contributions thus acknowledged, Nos. 1, 3, and 19 are reprinted here from the original
edition; Nos. 5 and 7 were included by Pope in the fourth volume of "Miscellanies," under the
title "An Essay on the Fates of Clergymen"; No. 9 he entitled "An Essay on Modern Education";
No. 15 was a reprint of the pamphlet "A Short View of the State of Ireland"-- these will be
found in this edition under the above titles. The verses in No. 8 ("Mad Mullinix and Timothy")
and in No. 10 ("Tim and the Fables") are in Swift's "Poems," Aldine edition, vol. iii., pp. 132-43.

The nineteen numbers of "The Intelligencer" were collected and published in one volume, which
was reprinted in London in 1729, "and sold by A. Moor in St. Paul's Church-yard." Monck Mason
never saw a copy of the London reprint referred to by Swift. He had in his possession the original
papers; "they are twenty in number," he says; "the last is double." The second London edition,
published in 12mo in 1730, as "printed for Francis Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-Gate in Fleet-street,"
includes No. 20, "Dean Smedley, gone to seek his Fortune," and also a poem, "The Pheasant and
the Lark. A Fable." In the poem, several writers are compared to birds, Swift being the nightingale:

  "At length the nightingale was heard,
  For voice and wisdom long revered,
  Esteemed of all the wise and good,
  The guardian genius of the wood;" etc.

The poem was written by Swift's friend, Dr. Delany. The title-page of this second edition ascribes
the authorship, "By the Author of a Tale of a Tub."

"The Intelligencer," in the words of W. Monck Mason, "served as a vehicle of satire against
the Dean's political and literary enemies; of these the chief were, Richard Tighe, Sir Thomas
Prendergast, and Jonathan Smedley, Dean of Clogher" ("Hist, and Antiq. of St. Patrick's," pp.
376-7). [T.S.]

THE INTELLIGENCER, NUMB. 1.[1]

SATURDAY, MAY 11, TO BE CONTINUED WEEKLY.

It may be said, without offence to other cities, of much greater consequence in the world,
that our town of Dublin doth not want its due proportion of folly, and vice, both native and
imported; and as to those imported, we have the advantage to receive them last, and consequently
after our happy manner to improve, and refine upon them.

But, because there are many effects of folly and vice among us, whereof some are general, others
confined to smaller numbers, and others again, perhaps to a few individuals; there is a society
lately established, who at great expense, have erected an office of Intelligence, from which
they are to receive weekly information of all important events and singularities, which this
famous metropolis can furnish. Strict injunctions are given to have the truest information:
in order to which, certain qualified persons are employed to attend upon duty in their several
posts; some at the play-house, others in churches, some at balls, assemblies, coffee-houses,
and meetings for quadrille,[2] some at the several courts of justice, both spiritual and temporal,
some at the college, some upon my lord mayor, and aldermen in their public affairs; lastly,
some to converse with favourite chamber-maids, and to frequent those ale-houses, and brandy-shops,
where the footmen of great families meet in a morning; only the barracks and Parliament-house
are excepted; because we have yet found no enfans perdus bold enough to venture their persons
at either. Out of these and some other store-houses, we hope to gather materials enough to
inform, or divert, or correct, or vex the town.

But as facts, passages, and adventures of all kinds, are like to have the greatest share in
our paper, whereof we cannot always answer for the truth; due care shall be taken to have them
applied to feigned names, whereby all just offence will be removed; for if none be guilty,
none will have cause to blush or be angry; if otherwise, then the guilty person is safe for
the future upon his present amendment, and safe for the present, from all but his own conscience.

There is another resolution taken among us, which I fear will give a greater and more general
discontent, and is of so singular a nature, that I have hardly confidence enough to mention
it, although it be absolutely necessary by way of apology, for so bold and unpopular an attempt.
But so it is, that we have taken a desperate counsel to produce into the world every distinguished
action, either of justice, prudence, generosity, charity, friendship, or public spirit, which
comes well attested to us. And although we shall neither here be so daring as to assign names,
yet we shall hardly forbear to give some hints, that perhaps to the great displeasure of such
deserving persons may endanger a discovery. For we think that even virtue itself, should submit
to such a mortification, as by its visibility and example, will render it more useful to the
world. But however, the readers of these papers, need not be in pain of being overcharged,
with so dull and ungrateful a subject. And yet who knows, but such an occasion may be offered
to us, once in a year or two, after we shall have settled a correspondence round the kingdom.

But after all our boasts of materials, sent us by our several emissaries, we may probably soon
fall short, if the town will not be pleased to lend us further assistance toward entertaining
itself. The world best knows its own faults and virtues, and whatever is sent shall be faithfully
returned back, only a little embellished according to the custom of authors. We do therefore
demand and expect continual advertisements in great numbers, to be sent to the printer of this
paper, who hath employed a judicious secretary to collect such as may be most useful for the
public.

And although we do not intend to expose our own persons by mentioning names, yet we are so
far from requiring the same caution in our correspondents, that on the contrary, we expressly
charge and command them, in all the facts they send us, to set down the names, titles, and
places of abode at length; together with a very particular description of the persons, dresses,
and dispositions of the several lords, ladies, squires, madams, lawyers, gamesters, toupees,
sots, wits, rakes, and informers, whom they shall have occasion to mention; otherwise it will
not be possible for us to adjust our style to the different qualities, and capacities of the
persons concerned, and treat them with the respect or familiarity, that may be due to their
stations and characters, which we are determined to observe with the utmost strictness, that
none may have cause to complain.

[Footnote 1: In the "Contents" to both the editions of 1729 and 1730, this is called "Introduction."
Each of the numbers has a special title in this table, as follows:

No. I. Introduction. II. The Inhospitable Temper of 'Squire Wether. III. A Vindication of Mr.
Gay, and the Beggar's Opera. IV. The Folly of Gaming. V. A Description of what the World calls
Discretion. VI. A Representation of the Present Condition of Ireland. VII. The Character of
Corusodes and Eugenio. VIII. A Dialogue between Mullinix and Timothy. IX. The foolish Methods
of Education among the Nobility. X. Tim and Gay's Fables. XI. Proposals in Prose and Verse
for, An Universal View of all the eminent Writers on the Holy Scriptures, &c. XII. Sir Ralph
the Patriot turned Courtier. XIII. The Art of Story-Telling. XIV. Prometheus's Art of Man-making:
And the Tale of the T--d. XV. The Services the Drapier has done his Country, and the Steps
taken to ruin it. XVI. The Adventures of the three Brothers, George, Patrick, and Andrew. XVII.
The Marks of Ireland's Poverty, shewn to be evident Proofs of its Riches. XVIII. St. Andrew's
Day, and the Drapier's Birth-Day. XIX. The Hardships of the Irish being deprived of their Silver,
and decoyed into America. [XX. Dean Smedley, gone to seek his Fortune. The Pheasant and the
Lark. A Fable.]-[T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: A fashionable card game of the time. See also Swift's poem, "The Journal of a
Modern Lady" (Aldine edition, vol. i., pp. 214-23), and "A New Proposal for the better regulation
... of Quadrille," written by Dr. Josiah Hort, Bp. of Kilmore, in 1735/6 (afterwards Abp. of
Tuam), and included by Scott in his edition of Swift (vii. 372-7). [T.S.]]

THE INTELLIGENCER, NUMB. III.[1]

  --Ipse per omnes
  Ibit personas, et turbam reddet in unam.[2]

The players having now almost done with the comedy, called the "Beggar's Opera,"[3] for this
season, it may be no unpleasant speculation, to reflect a little upon this dramatic piece,
so singular in the subject, and the manner, so much an original, and which hath frequently
given so very agreeable an entertainment.[4]

Although an evil taste be very apt to prevail, both here, and in London, yet there is a point
which whoever can rightly touch, will never fail of pleasing a very great majority; so great,
that the dislikers, out of dullness or affectation will be silent, and forced to fall in with
the herd; the point I mean, is what we call humour, which in its perfection is allowed to be
much preferable to wit, if it be not rather the most useful, and agreeable species of it.

I agree with Sir William Temple, that the word is peculiar to our English tongue, but I differ
from him in the opinion, that the thing itself is peculiar to the English nation,[5] because
the contrary may be found in many Spanish, Italian and French productions, and particularly,
whoever hath a taste for true humour, will find a hundred instances of it in those volumes
printed in France, under the name of Le Théâtre Italien,[6] to say nothing of Rabelais, Cervantes,
and many others.

Now I take the comedy or farce, (or whatever name the critics will allow it) called the "Beggar's
Opera"; to excel in this article of humour; and, upon that merit, to have met with such prodigious
success both here, and in England.

As to poetry, eloquence and music, which are said to have most power over the minds of men,
it is certain that very few have a taste or judgment of the excellencies of the two former,
and if a man succeeds in either, it is upon the authority of those few judges, that lend their
taste to the bulk of readers, who have none of their own. I am told there are as few good judges
in music, and that among those who crowd the operas, nine in ten go thither merely out of curiosity,
fashion, or affectation.

But a taste for humour is in some manner fixed to the very nature of man, and generally obvious
to the vulgar, except upon subjects too refined, and superior to their understanding.

And as this taste of humour is purely natural, so is humour itself, neither is it a talent
confined to men of wit, or learning; for we observe it sometimes among common servants, and
the meanest of the people, while the very owners are often ignorant of the gift they possess.

I know very well, that this happy talent is contemptibly treated by critics, under the name
of low humour, or low comedy; but I know likewise, that the Spaniards and Italians, who are
allowed to have the most wit of any nation in Europe, do most excel in it, and do most esteem it.

By what disposition of the mind, what influence of the stars, or what situation of the climate
this endowment is bestowed upon mankind, may be a question fit for philosophers to discuss.
It is certainly the best ingredient toward that kind of satire, which is most useful, and gives
the least offence; which instead of lashing, laughs men out of their follies, and vices, and
is the character which gives Horace the preference to Juvenal.

And although some things are too serious, solemn or sacred to be turned into ridicule, yet
the abuses of them are certainly not, since it is allowed that corruption in religion, politics,
and law, may be proper topics for this kind of satire.

There are two ends that men propose in writing satire, one of them less noble than the other,
as regarding nothing further than personal satisfaction, and pleasure of the writer; but without
any view towards personal malice; the other is a public spirit, prompting men of genius and
virtue, to mend the world as far as they are able. And as both these ends are innocent, so
the latter is highly commendable. With regard to the former, I demand whether I have not as
good a title to laugh, as men have to be ridiculous, and to expose vice, as another hath to
be vicious. If I ridicule the follies and corruptions of a court, a ministry, or a senate;
are they not amply paid by pensions, titles, and power, while I expect and desire no other
reward, than that of laughing with a few friends in a corner. Yet, if those who take offence,
think me in the wrong, I am ready to change the scene with them, whenever they please.

But if my design be to make mankind better, then I think it is my duty, at least I am sure
it is the interest of those very courts and ministers, whose follies or vices I ridicule, to
reward me for my good intentions; for, if it be reckoned a high point of wisdom to get the
laughers on our side, it is much more easy, as well as wise to get those on our side, who can
make millions laugh when they please.

My reason for mentioning courts, and ministers, (whom I never think on, but with the most profound
veneration) is because an opinion obtains that in the "Beggar's Opera" there appears to be
some reflection upon courtiers and statesmen, whereof I am by no means a judge[7].

It is true indeed that Mr. Gay, the author of this piece, hath been somewhat singular in the
course of his fortunes, for it hath happened, that after fourteen years attending the court,
with a large stock of real merit, a modest, and agreeable conversation, a hundred promises,
and five hundred friends [he] hath failed of preferment, and upon a very weighty reason. He
lay under the suspicion of having written a libel, or lampoon against a great m[inister][8].
It is true that great m[inister] was demonstratively convinced, and publicly owned his conviction,
that Mr. Gay was not the author; but having lain under the suspicion, it seemed very just,
that he should suffer the punishment; because in this most reformed age, the virtues of a great
m[inister] are no more to be suspected, than the chastity of Caesar's wife.

It must be allowed, that the "Beggar's Opera" is not the first of Mr. Gay's works, wherein
he hath been faulty, with regard to courtiers and statesmen. For, to omit his other pieces
even in his Fables, published within two years past, and dedicated to the Duke of Cumberland,
for which he was promised a reward[9]; he hath been thought somewhat too bold upon courtiers.
And although it is highly probable, he meant only the courtiers of former times, yet he acted
unwarily, by not considering that the malignity of some people might misinterpret what he said
to the disadvantage of present persons, and affairs.

But I have now done with Mr. Gay as a politician, and shall consider him henceforward only
as author of the "Beggar's Opera," wherein he hath by a turn of humour, entirely new, placed
vices of all kinds in the strongest and most odious light; and thereby done eminent service,
both to religion and morality. This appears from the unparalleled success he hath met with.
All ranks parties and denominations of men, either crowding to see his opera, or reading it
with delight in their closets, even ministers of state, whom he is thought to have most offended
(next to those whom the actors more immediately represent) appearing frequently at the theatre,
from a consciousness of their own innocence, and to convince the world how unjust a parallel,
malice, envy, and disaffection to the government have made.

I am assured that several worthy clergymen in this city, went privately to see the "Beggar's
Opera" represented; and that the fleering coxcombs in the pit, amused themselves with making
discoveries, and spreading the names of those gentlemen round the audience.

I shall not pretend to vindicate a clergyman, who would appear openly in his habit at a theatre,
among such a vicious crew, as would probably stand round him, and at such lewd comedies, and
profane tragedies as are often represented. Besides I know very well, that persons of their
function are bound to avoid the appearance of evil, or of giving cause of offence. But when
the lords chancellors, who are keepers of the king's conscience, when the judges of the land,
whose title is reverend, when ladies, who are bound by the rules of their sex, to the strictest
decency, appear in the theatre without censure, I cannot understand, why a young clergyman
who goes concealed out of curiosity to see an innocent and moral play, should be so highly
condemned; nor do I much approve the rigour of a great p[rela]te, who said, "he hoped none
of his clergy were there." I am glad to hear there are no weightier objections against that
reverend body, planted in this city, and I wish there never may. But I should be very sorry
that any of them should be so weak, as to imitate a court chaplain in England, who preached
against the "Beggar's Opera," which will probably do more good than a thousand sermons of so
stupid, so injudicious, and so prostitute a divine[10].

In this happy performance of Mr. Gay, all the characters are just, and none of them carried
beyond nature, or hardly beyond practice. It discovers the whole system of that commonwealth,
or that imperium in imperio of iniquity, established among us, by which neither our lives,
nor our properties are secure, either in the highways, or in public assemblies, or even in
our own houses. It shews the miserable lives, and the constant fate of those abandoned wretches;
for how little they sell their lives and souls; betrayed by their whores, their comrades, and
the receivers and purchasers of these thefts and robberies. This comedy contains likewise a
satire, which, although it doth by no means affect the present age, yet might have been useful
in the former, and may possibly be so in ages to come. I mean where the author takes occasion
of comparing those common robbers to robbers of the public;[11] and their several stratagems
of betraying, undermining, and hanging each other,[12] to the several arts of politicians in
times of corruption.

This comedy likewise exposeth with great justice, that unnatural taste for Italian music among
us,[13] which is wholly unsuitable to our northern climate, and the genius of the people, whereby
we are over-run with Italian effeminacy, and Italian nonsense. An old gentleman said to me,
that many years ago, when the practice of an unnatural vice grew so frequent in London, that
many were prosecuted for it, he was sure it would be a forerunner[14] of Italian operas, and
singers; and then we should want nothing but stabbing or poisoning, to make us perfect Italians.

Upon the whole, I deliver my judgment, that nothing but servile attachment to a party, affectation
of singularity, lamentable dullness, mistaken zeal, or studied hypocrisy, can have the least
reasonable objection against this excellent moral performance of the celebrated Mr. Gay.

[Footnote 1: See title in note above, p. 313. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: "He will go among the people, and will draw a crowd together." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: Gay's "The Beggar's Opera" was produced by Rich at the Theatre Royal in Lincoln's
Inn Fields, January 29th, 1727/8, and published in book form in 1728. It was shortly afterwards
performed in Dublin, Bath, and other places. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: Writing to Pope, May 10th, 1728, Swift says: "Mr. Gay's Opera has been acted here
twenty times, and my lord lieutenant tells me it is very well performed; he has seen it often,
and approves it much.... 'The Beggar's Opera' has done its task, discedat uti conviva satur"
(Scott's edition, xvii. 188-9). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: In his essay "Of Poetry," Sir William Temple, writing of dramatic poetry, says:
"Yet I am deceived, if our English has not in some kind excelled both the modern and the ancient,
which has been by force of a vein natural perhaps to our country, and which with us is called
humour, a word peculiar to our language too, and hard to be expressed in any other;" etc.--"Works,"
vol. i., p. 247 (1720). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 6: "Le Théâtre Italian, ou le Recueil de toutes les Comédies et Scènes Françoises,
qui out été jouées sur le Théâtre Italian." The collection was edited by Evariste Gherardi,
and published in 1695. Two further volumes were issued in 1698, the third containing complete
plays. The collection was afterwards extended to six volumes. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: A modern writer says of it: "It bristles with keen, well-pointed satire on the
corrupt and venal politicians and courtiers of the day" (W.H. Husk in Grove's "Dict. of Music").[T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: In the character of Robin of Bagshot Gay intended Sir Robert Walpole.[T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: Gay's "Fables" was first published in 1727, with a dedication "To his Highness
William Duke of Cumberland." The Fables are said to have been "invented for his amusement."
Cumberland was the second son of George, Prince of Wales, and was afterwards known as "the
butcher."[T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: Dr. Thomas Herring, preacher at Lincoln's Inn, and afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury,
preached a sermon against "The Beggar's Opera" in March, 1727-8. It is referred to in a letter
to the "Whitehall Evening Post," dated March 30th, 1728, reprinted in the Appendix to "Letters
from Dr. T. Herring to W. Duncombe," 1777. As Archbishop of York, Herring interested himself
greatly, during the rebellion of 1745, in forming an association for the defence of the liberties
of the people and the constitution of the country. Writing to Swift, under date May 16th, 1728,
Gay remarks: "I suppose you must have heard, that I had the honour to have had a sermon preached
against my works by a court-chaplain, which I look upon as no small addition to my fame" (Scott,
xvii. 194). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: The edition of 1729 has "those common robbers of the public." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: Peachum says: "Can it be expected that we should hang our acquaintance for nothing,
when our betters will hardly save theirs without being paid for it?"--Act II., sc. x. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 13: The rivalry between Handel and the Italian composers had then been keen for nearly
twenty years. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: The edition of 1729 has "the fore-runner." [T.S.]]

THE INTELLIGENCER, NUMB. XIX[1].

Having on the 12th of October last, received a letter signed ANDREW DEALER, and PATRICK PENNYLESS;
I believe the following PAPER, just come to my hands, will be a sufficient answer to it[2].

  Sic vos non vobis vellera fertis oves.
  VlRG.[3]

SIR,

I am a country gentleman, and a Member of Parliament, with an estate of about 1400l. a year,
which as a Northern landlord, I receive from above two hundred tenants, and my lands having
been let, near twenty years ago, the rents, till very lately, were esteemed to be not above
half value; yet by the intolerable scarcity of silver[4], I lie under the greatest difficulties
in receiving them, as well as in paying my labourers, or buying any thing necessary for my
family from tradesmen, who are not able to be long out of their money. But the sufferings of
me, and those of my rank, are trifles in comparison, of what the meaner sort undergo; such
as the buyers and sellers, at fairs, and markets; the shopkeepers in every town, the farmers
in general. All those who travel with fish, poultry, pedlary-ware, and other conveniencies
to sell: But more especially handicrafts-men, who work for us by the day, and common labourers,
whom I have already mentioned. Both these kinds of people, I am forced to employ, till their
wages amount to a double pistole,[5] or a moidore, (for we hardly have any gold of lower value
left among us) to divide it among themselves as they can; and this is generally done at an
ale-house or brandy shop; where, besides the cost of getting drunk, (which is usually the case)
they must pay tenpence or a shilling, for changing their piece into silver, to some huckstering
fellow, who follows that trade. But what is infinitely worse, those poor men for want of due
payment, are forced to take up their oatmeal, and other necessaries of life, at almost double
value, and consequently are not able, to discharge half their score, especially under the scarceness
of corn, for two years past, and the melancholy disappointment of the present crop.

The causes of this, and a thousand other evils, are clear and manifest to you and all other
thinking men, though hidden from the vulgar: these indeed complain of hard times, the dearth
of corn, the want of money, the badness of seasons; that their goods bear no price, and the
poor cannot find work; but their weak reasonings never carry them to the hatred, and contempt,
borne us by our neighbours, and brethren, without the least grounds of provocation, who rejoice
at our sufferings, although sometimes to their own disadvantage; of the dead weight upon every
beneficial branch of our trade;[6] of half our revenues sent annually to England, and many
other grievances peculiar to this unhappy kingdom, excepted for our sins, which keep us from
enjoying the common benefits of mankind, as you and some other lovers of their country, have
so often observed, with such good inclinations, and so little effect.

It is true indeed, that under our circumstances in general, this complaint for the want of
silver, may appear as ridiculous, as for a man to be impatient, about a cut finger, when he
is struck with the plague; and yet a poor fellow going to the gallows, may be allowed to feel
the smart of wasps, while he is upon Tyburn Road. This misfortune is too urging,[7] and vexatious
in every kind of small traffic, and so hourly pressing upon all persons in the country whatsoever,
that a hundred inconveniences, of perhaps greater moment in themselves, have been timely[8]
submitted to, with far less disquietude and murmurs. And the case seems yet the harder, if
it be true, what many skilful men assert, that nothing is more easy, than a remedy; and, that
the want of silver, in proportion to the little gold remaining among us, is altogether as unnecessary,
as it is inconvenient. A person of distinction assured me very lately, that, in discoursing
with the lord lieutenant,[9] before his last return to England, his excellency said, "He had
pressed the matter often, in proper time and place, and to proper persons; and could not see
any difficulty of the least moment, that could prevent us from being easy upon that article."[10]

Whoever carries to England, twenty-seven English shillings, and brings back one moidore, of
full weight, is a gainer of ninepence Irish; in a guinea, the advantage is threepence, and
twopence in a pistole. The BANKERS, who are generally masters of all our gold, and silver,
with this advantage, have sent over as much of the latter, as came into their hands. The value
of one thousand moidores in silver, would thus amount in clear profit, to 37l. 10,s. The shopkeepers,
and other traders, who go to London to buy goods, followed the same practice, by which we have
been driven into this insupportable distress.

To a common thinker, it should seem, that nothing would be more easy, than for the government
to redress this evil, at any time they shall please. When the value of guineas was lowered
in England, from 21s. 6d. to only 21s.[11] the consequences to this kingdom, were obvious,
and manifest to us all; and a sober man, may be allowed at least to wonder, though he dare
not complain, why a new regulation of coin among us, was not then made; much more, why it hath
never been since. It would surely require no very profound skill in algebra, to reduce the
difference of ninepence in thirty shillings, or threepence in a guinea, to less than a farthing;
and so small a fraction could be no temptation, either to bankers, to hazard their silver at
sea, or tradesmen to load themselves with it, in their journeys to England. In my humble opinion,
it would be no unseasonable condescension, if the government would graciously please, to signify
to the poor loyal Protestant subjects of Ireland, either that this miserable want of silver,
is not possible to be remedied in any degree, by the nicest skill in arithmetic; or else, that
it doth not stand with the good pleasure of England, to suffer any silver at all among us.
In the former case, it would be madness, to expect impossibilities: and in the other, we must
submit: For, lives, and fortunes are always at the mercy of the CONQUEROR.

The question hath been often put in printed papers, by the DRAPIER,[12] and others, or perhaps
by the same WRITER, under different styles, why this kingdom should not be permitted to have
a mint of its own, for the coinage of gold, silver, and copper, which is a power exercised
by many bishops, and every petty prince in Germany. But this question hath never been answered,
nor the least application that I have heard of, made to the Crown from hence, for the grant
of a public mint, although it stands upon record, that several cities, and corporations here,
had the liberty of coining silver. I can see no reasons, why we alone of all nations, are thus
restrained, but such as I dare not mention; only thus far, I may venture, that Ireland is the
first imperial kingdom, since Nimrod, which ever wanted power, to coin their own money.

I know very well, that in England it is lawful for any subject, to petition either the Prince,
or the Parliament, provided it be done in a dutiful, and regular manner; but what is lawful
for a subject of Ireland, I profess I cannot determine; nor will undertake, that your printer
shall not be prosecuted, in a court of justice, for publishing my wishes, that a poor shopkeeper
might be able to change a guinea, or a moidore, when a customer comes for a crown's worth of
goods. I have known less crimes punished with the utmost severity, under the title of disaffection:
And, I cannot but approve the wisdom of the ancients, who, after Astraea had fled from the
earth,[13] at least took care to provide three upright judges for Hell. Men's ears among us,
are indeed grown so nice, that whoever happens to think out of fashion, in what relates to
the welfare of this kingdom, dare not so much as complain of the toothache, lest our weak and
busy dabblers in politic should be ready to swear against him for disaffection.

There was a method practised by Sir Ambrose Crawley,[14] the great dealer in iron-works, which
I wonder the gentlemen o£ our country, under this great exigence, have not thought fit to imitate.
In the several towns, and villages, where he dealt, and many miles round, he gave notes, instead
of money, from twopence, to twenty shillings, which passed current in all shops, and markets,
as well as in houses, where meat, or drink was sold. I see no reason, why the like practice,
may not be introduced among us, with some degree of success, or at least may not serve, as
a poor expedient, in this our blessed age of paper, which, as it dischargeth all our greatest
payments, may be equally useful in the smaller, and may just keep us alive, till an English
Act of Parliament shall forbid it.

I have been told, that among some of our poorest American colonies, upon the continent, the
people enjoy the liberty of cutting the little money among them into halves, and quarters,
for the conveniences of small traffic. How happy should we be in comparison of our present
condition, if the like privilege, were granted to us, of employing the shears, for want of
a mint, upon our foreign gold; by clipping it into half-crowns, and shillings, and even lower
denominations; for beggars must be content to live upon scraps; and it would be our felicity,
that these scraps would never[15] be exported to other countries, while any thing better was left.

If neither of these projects will avail, I see nothing left us, but to truck and barter our
goods, like the wild Indians, with each other, or with our too powerful neighbours; only with
this disadvantage on our side, that the Indians enjoy the product of their own land, whereas
the better half of ours is sent away without so much as a recompense in bugles, or glass, in
return.

It must needs be a very comfortable circumstance, in the present juncture, that some thousand
families are gone, or going, or preparing to go, from hence, and settle themselves in America.
The poorer sort, for want of work; the farmers whose beneficial bargains, are now become a
rack-rent, too hard to be borne. And those who have any ready money, or can purchase any, by
the sale of their goods, or leases; because they find their fortunes hourly decaying; that
their goods will bear no price, and that few or none, have any money to buy the very necessaries
of life, are hastening to follow their departed neighbours. It is true, corn among us, carries
a very high price; but it is for the same reason, that rats, and cats, and dead horses, have
been often bought for gold, in a town besieged.

There is a person of quality in my neighbourhood, who twenty years ago, when he was just come
to age, being unexperienced, and of a generous temper, let his lands, even as times went then,
at a low rate, to able tenants, and consequently by the rise of land, since that time, looked
upon his estate, to be set at half value. But numbers of these tenants, or their descendants
are now offering to sell their leases by cant, even those which were for lives, some of them
renewable for ever, and some fee-farms, which the landlord himself hath bought in, at half
the price they would have yielded seven years ago. And some leases let at the same time, for
lives, have been given up to him, without any consideration at all.

This is the most favourable face of things at present among us, I say, among us of the North,
who are esteemed the only thriving people of the kingdom: And how far, and how soon, this misery
and desolation may spread, is easy to foresee.

The vast sums of money daily carried off, by our numerous adventurers to America, have deprived
us of our gold in these parts, almost as much as of our silver.

And the good wives who came[16] to our houses, offer us their pieces of linen, upon which their
whole dependence lies, for so little profit, that it can neither half pay their rents, nor
half support their families.

It is remarkable, that this enthusiasm spread among our northern people, of sheltering themselves
in the continent of America, hath no other foundation, than their present insupportable condition
at home. I have made all possible inquiries, to learn what encouragement our people have met
with, by any intelligence from those plantations, sufficient to make them undertake so tedious,
and hazardous a voyage in all seasons of the year; and so ill accommodated in their ships,
that many of them have died miserably in their passage; but, could never get one satisfactory
answer. Somebody, they know not who, had written a letter to his friend, or cousin, from thence,
inviting him by all means, to come over; that it was a fine fruitful country, and to be held
for ever, at a penny an acre. But the truth of the fact is this, The English established in
those colonies, are in great want of men to inhabit that tract of ground, which lies between
them, and the wild Indians, who are not reduced under their dominion. We read of some barbarous
people, whom the Romans placed in their armies, for no other service, than to blunt their enemies'
swords, and afterwards to fill up trenches with their dead bodies. And thus our people who
transport themselves, are settled in those interjacent tracts, as a screen against the insults
of the savages, and many have as much land, as they can clear from the woods, at a very reasonable
rate, if they can afford to pay about a hundred years' purchase by their labour. Now beside
the fox's reasons which inclines all those, who have already ventured thither, to represent
everything, in a false light, as well for justifying their own conduct, as for getting companions,
in their misery; so, the governing people in those plantations, have wisely provided,[17] that
no letters shall be suffered to pass from thence hither, without being first viewed by the
council, by which our people here, are wholly deceived in the opinions, they have of the happy
condition of their friends, gone before them. This was accidentally discovered some months
ago, by an honest man who having transported himself, and family thither, and finding all things
directly contrary to his hope, had the luck to convey a private note, by a faithful hand, to
his relation here, entreating him, not to think of such a voyage, and to discourage all his
friends from attempting it. Yet this, although it be a truth well known, hath produced very
little effects; which is no manner of wonder, for as it is natural to a man in a fever to turn
often, although without any hope of ease, or when he is pursued to leap down a precipice, to
avoid an enemy just at his back; so, men in the extremest degree of misery, and want, will
naturally fly to the first appearance of relief, let it be ever so vain, or visionary.

You may observe, that I have very superficially touched the subject I began with, and with
the utmost caution: for I know how criminal the least complaint hath been thought, however
seasonable or just, or honestly intended, which hath forced me to offer up my daily prayers,
that it may never, at least in my time, be interpreted by innuendoes as a false scandalous,
seditious, and disaffected action, for a man to roar under an acute fit of the gout, which
beside the loss and the danger, would be very inconvenient to one of my age, so severely afflicted
with that distemper.

I wish you good success, but I can promise you little, in an ungrateful office you have taken
up, without the least view, either to reputation or profit. Perhaps your comfort is, that none
but villains, and betrayers of their country, can be your enemies. Upon which, I have little
to say, having not the honour, to be acquainted with many of that sort, and therefore, as you
easily may believe, am compelled to lead a very retired life.

I am Sir, Your most obedient, Humble servant,

A. NORTH.

County of Down, Dec. 2d. 1728.

[Footnote 1: See title for this in note above to No. 1, p. 313. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: No. 19 of "The Intelligencer" is a reprint of a tract which I have not been able
to find. It appeared again in 1736 under the title: "A Letter from the Revd. J.S.D.S.P.D. to
a Country Gentleman in the North of Ireland."[T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: "Apud Donati Vitam," 17:

  "Thus do ye sheep grow fleeces for others."--W.F.H. KING.

  [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: Writing to Dr. Sheridan, under date September 18th, 1728, Swift says: "I think
the sufferings of the country for want of silver deserves a paper, since the remedy is so easy,
and those in power so negligent" (Scott, xvii. 204). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: The price of the pistole in Ireland was fixed at 18s. 6d., the double pistole
at £1 17s., and the moidore £1 10s. These prices were fixed by order of the Lords Justices,
July 30th, 1712. In 1737 the moidore was reduced to £1 9s. 3d. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: The 1736 edition of "A Letter," etc., has "tamely." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: John Carteret (1690-1763) succeeded his father as second Baron Carteret in 1695,
and his mother as Earl Granville in 1744. He was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland from 1724 to 1730.
See Swift's "Vindication of ... Lord Carteret" in vol. vi. of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: "A Letter," etc. (1736 edition), has "being made easy upon this article." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: On December 22nd, 1717, the price of the guinea was reduced, by a proclamation,
from 21s. 6d. to 21s. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: See vol. vii. of present edition of Swift's Works, dealing with the Drapier Letters.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 13: Astraea withdrew from the earth at the close of the Golden Age. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: Sir Ambrose Crowley (or Crawley), Liveryman of the Drapers' Company and Alderman
for Dowgate Ward, sat in Parliament for Andover in 1713. He was satirized in "The Spectator"
(No. 299, February 12th, 1711/2) as Sir John Enville, and in "The Tatler" (No. 73, September
27th, 1709) as Sir Arthur de Bradley. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 15: "A Letter," etc. (1736), has "could never." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 16: The reprint of 1730, and "A Letter," etc. (1736), have "who come." [T.S.]]

