TALES
 FROM
 "BLACKWOOD"

 Contents of this Volume

 The Glenmutchkin Railway. By Professor Aytoun

 Vanderdecken's Message Home

 The Floating Beacon

 Colonna the Painter

 Napoleon. By J. G. Lockhart

 A Legend of Gibraltar. By Col. E. B. Hamley

 The Iron Shroud. By William Mudford

 WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS
 EDINBURGH AND LONDON

TALES FROM "BLACKWOOD."

 HOW WE GOT UP THE GLENMUTCHKIN RAILWAY
 AND HOW WE GOT OUT OF IT

BY PROFESSOR AYTOUN.

[MAGA. OCTOBER 1845.]

[The following Tale appeared in the Magazine for October 1845. It was intended by the writer
as a sketch of some of the more striking features of the railway mania (then in full progress
throughout Great Britain), as exhibited in Glasgow and Edinburgh. Although bearing the appearance
of a burlesque, it was in truth an accurate delineation (as will be acknowledged by many a
gentleman who had the misfortune to be "out in the Forty-five"); and subsequent disclosures
have shown that it was in no way exaggerated.

Although the "Glenmutchkin line" was purely imaginary, and not intended by the writer to apply
to any particular scheme then before the public, it was identified in Scotland with more than
one reckless and impracticable project; and even the characters introduced were supposed to
be typical of personages who had attained some notoriety in the throng of speculation. Any
such resemblances must be considered as fortuitous; for the writer cannot charge himself with
the discourtesy of individual satire or allusion.]

I was confoundedly hard up. My patrimony, never of the largest, had been for the last year
on the decrease--a herald would have emblazoned it, "ARGENT, a money-bag improper, in detriment"--and
though the attenuating process was not excessively rapid, it was, nevertheless, proceeding
at a steady ratio. As for the ordinary means and appliances by which men contrive to recruit
their exhausted exchequers, I knew none of them. Work I abhorred with a detestation worthy
of a scion of nobility; and, I believe, you could just as soon have persuaded the lineal representative
of the Howards or Percys to exhibit himself in the character of a mountebank, as have got me
to trust my person on the pinnacle of a three-legged stool. The rule of three is all very well
for base mechanical souls; but I flatter myself I have an intellect too large to be limited
to a ledger. "Augustus," said my poor mother to me, while stroking my hyacinthine tresses,
one fine morning, in the very dawn and budding-time of my existence--"Augustus, my dear boy,
whatever you do, never forget that you are a gentleman." The maternal maxim sunk deeply into
my heart, and I never for a moment have forgotten it.

Notwithstanding this aristocratic resolution, the great practical question, "How am I to live?"
began to thrust itself unpleasantly before me. I am one of that unfortunate class who have
neither uncles nor aunts. For me, no yellow liverless individual, with characteristic bamboo
and pigtail--emblems of half-a-million--returned to his native shores from Ceylon or remote
Penang. For me, no venerable spinster hoarded in the Trongate, permitting herself few luxuries
during a long-protracted life, save a lass and a lanthorn, a parrot, and the invariable baudrons
of antiquity. No such luck was mine. Had all Glasgow perished by some vast epidemic, I should
not have found myself one farthing the richer. There would have been no golden balsam for me
in the accumulated woes of Tradestown, Shettleston, and Camlachie. The time has been when--according
to Washington Irving and other veracious historians--a young man had no sooner got into difficulties
than a guardian angel appeared to him in a dream, with the information that at such and such
a bridge, or under such and such a tree, he might find, at a slight expenditure of labour,
a gallipot secured with bladder, and filled with glittering tomauns; or in the extremity of
despair, the youth had only to append himself to a cord, and straightway the other end thereof,
forsaking its staple in the roof, would disclose amidst the fractured ceiling the glories of
a profitable pose. These blessed days have long since gone by--at any rate, no such luck was
mine. My guardian angel was either woefully ignorant of metallurgy or the stores had been surreptitiously
ransacked; and as to the other expedient, I frankly confess I should have liked some better
security for its result, than the precedent of the "Heir of Lynn."

It is a great consolation amidst all the evils of life, to know that, however bad your circumstances
may be, there is always somebody else in nearly the same predicament. My chosen friend and
ally, Bob M'Corkindale, was equally hard up with myself, and, if possible, more averse to exertion.
Bob was essentially a speculative man--that is, in a philosophical sense. He had once got hold
of a stray volume of Adam Smith, and muddled his brains for a whole week over the intricacies
of the Wealth of Nations. The result was a crude farrago of notions regarding the true nature
of money, the soundness of currency, and relative value of capital, with which he nightly favoured
an admiring audience at "The Crow;" for Bob was by no means--in the literal acceptation of
the word--a dry philosopher. On the contrary, he perfectly appreciated the merits of each distinct
distillery; and was understood to be the compiler of a statistical work, entitled, A Tour through
the Alcoholic Districts of Scotland. It had very early occurred to me, who knew as much of
political economy as of the bagpipes, that a gentleman so well versed in the art of accumulating
national wealth, must have some remote ideas of applying his principles profitably on a smaller
scale. Accordingly, I gave M'Corkindale an unlimited invitation to my lodgings; and, like a
good hearty fellow as he was, he availed himself every evening of the license; for I had laid
in a fourteen-gallon cask of Oban whisky, and the quality of the malt was undeniable.

These were the first glorious days of general speculation. Railroads were emerging from the
hands of the greater into the fingers of the lesser capitalists. Two successful harvests had
given a fearful stimulus to the national energy; and it appeared perfectly certain that all
the populous towns would be united, and the rich agricultural districts intersected, by the
magical bands of iron. The columns of the newspapers teemed every week with the parturition
of novel schemes; and the shares were no sooner announced than they were rapidly subscribed
for. But what is the use of my saying anything more about the history of last year? Every one
of us remembers it perfectly well. It was a capital year on the whole, and put money into many
a pocket. About that time, Bob and I commenced operations. Our available capital, or negotiable
bullion, in the language of my friend, amounted to about three hundred pounds, which we set
aside as a joint fund for speculation. Bob, in a series of learned discourses, had convinced
me that it was not only folly, but a positive sin, to leave this sum lying in the bank at a
pitiful rate of interest, and otherwise unemployed, whilst every one else in the kingdom was
having a pluck at the public pigeon. Somehow or other, we were unlucky in our first attempts.
Speculators are like wasps; for when they have once got hold of a ripening and peach-like project,
they keep it rigidly for their own swarm, and repel the approach of interlopers. Notwithstanding
all our efforts, and very ingenious ones they were, we never, in a single instance, succeeded
in procuring an allocation of original shares; and though we did now and then make a hit by
purchase, we more frequently bought at a premium, and parted with our scrip at a discount.
At the end of six months, we were not twenty pounds richer than before.

"This will never do," said Bob, as he sat one evening in my rooms compounding his second tumbler.
"I thought we were living in an enlightened age; but I find I was mistaken. That brutal spirit
of monopoly is still abroad and uncurbed. The principles of free-trade are utterly forgotten,
or misunderstood. Else how comes it that David Spreul received but yesterday an allocation
of two hundred shares in the Westermidden Junction; whilst your application and mine, for a
thousand each, were overlooked? Is this a state of things to be tolerated? Why should he, with
his fifty thousand pounds, receive a slapping premium, whilst our three hundred of available
capital remains unrepresented? The fact is monstrous, and demands the immediate and serious
interference of the legislature."

"It is a burning shame," said I, fully alive to the manifold advantages of a premium.

"I'll tell you what, Dunshunner," rejoined M'Corkindale, "it's no use going on in this way.
We haven't shown half pluck enough. These fellows consider us as snobs, because we don't take
the bull by the horns. Now's the time for a bold stroke. The public are quite ready to subscribe
for anything--and we'll start a railway for ourselves."

"Start a railway with three hundred pounds of capital!"

"Pshaw, man! you don't know what you're talking about--we've a great deal more capital than
that. Have not I told you seventy times over, that everything a man has--his coat, his hat,
the tumblers he drinks from, nay, his very corporeal existence--is absolute marketable capital?
What do you call that fourteen-gallon cask, I should like to know?"

"A compound of hoops and staves, containing about a quart and a half of spirits--you have effectually
accounted for the rest."

"Then it has gone to the fund of profit and loss, that's all. Never let me hear you sport those
old theories again. Capital is indestructible, as I am ready to prove to you any day, in half
an hour. But let us sit down seriously to business. We are rich enough to pay for the advertisements,
and that is all we need care for in the mean time. The public is sure to step in, and bear
us out handsomely with the rest."

"But where in the face of the habitable globe shall the railway be? England is out of the question,
and I hardly know a spot in the Lowlands that is not occupied already."

"What do you say to a Spanish scheme--the Alcantara Union? Hang me if I know whether Alcantara
is in Spain or Portugal; but nobody else does, and the one is quite as good as the other. Or
what would you think of the Palermo Railway, with a branch to the sulphur mines?--that would
be popular in the North--or the Pyrenees Direct? They would all go to a premium."

"I must confess I should prefer a line at home."

"Well, then, why not try the Highlands? There must be lots of traffic there in the shape of
sheep, grouse, and Cockney tourists, not to mention salmon and other et-ceteras. Couldn't we
tip them a railway somewhere in the west?"

"There's Glenmutchkin, for instance----"

"Capital, my dear fellow! Glorious! By Jove, first-rate!" shouted Bob in an ecstasy of delight.
"There's a distillery there, you know, and a fishing-village at the foot--at least there used
to be six years ago, when I was living with the exciseman. There may be some bother about the
population, though. The last laird shipped every mother's son of the aboriginal Celts to America;
but, after all, that's not of much consequence. I see the whole thing! Unrivalled scenery--stupendous
waterfalls--herds of black cattle--spot where Prince Charles Edward met Macgrugar of Glengrugar
and his clan! We could not possibly have lighted on a more promising place. Hand us over that
sheet of paper, like a good fellow, and a pen. There is no time to be lost, and the sooner
we get out the prospectus the better."

"But, heaven bless you, Bob, there's a great deal to be thought of first. Who are we to get
for a Provisional Committee?"

"That's very true," said Bob, musingly. "We must treat them to some respectable names, that
is, good sounding ones. I'm afraid there is little chance of our producing a Peer to begin with?"

"None whatever--unless we could invent one, and that's hardly safe--Burke's Peerage has gone
through too many editions. Couldn't we try the Dormants?"

"That would be rather dangerous in the teeth of the standing orders. But what do you say to
a baronet? There's Sir Polloxfen Tremens. He got himself served the other day to a Nova Scotia
baronetcy, with just as much title as you or I have; and he has sported the riband, and dined
out on the strength of it ever since. He'll join us at once, for he has not a sixpence to lose."

"Down with him, then," and we headed the Provisional list with the pseudo Orange-tawny.

"Now," said Bob, "it's quite indispensable, as this is a Highland line, that we should put
forward a Chief or two. That has always a great effect upon the English, whose feudal notions
are rather of the mistiest, and principally derived from Waverley."

"Why not write yourself down as the Laird of M'Corkindale?" said I. "I daresay you would not
be negatived by a counter-claim."

"That would hardly do," replied Bob, "as I intend to be Secretary. After all, what's the use
of thinking about it? Here goes for an extempore Chief;" and the villain wrote down the name
of Tavish M'Tavish of Invertavish.

"I say, though," said I, "we must have a real Highlander on the list. If we go on this way,
it will become a Justiciary matter."

"You're devilish scrupulous, Gus," said Bob, who, if left to himself, would have stuck in the
names of the heathen gods and goddesses, or borrowed his directors from the Ossianic chronicles,
rather than have delayed the prospectus. "Where the mischief are we to find the men? I can
think of no others likely to go the whole hog; can you?"

"I don't know a single Celt in Glasgow except old M'Closkie, the drunken porter at the corner
of Jamaica Street."

"He's the very man! I suppose, after the manner of his tribe, he will do anything for a pint
of whisky. But what shall we call him? Jamaica Street, I fear, will hardly do for a designation."

"Call him THE M'CLOSKIE. It will be sonorous in the ears of the Saxon!"

"Bravo!" and another Chief was added to the roll of the clans.

"Now," said Bob, "we must put you down. Recollect, all the management--that is, the allocation--will
be intrusted to you. Augustus--you haven't a middle name, I think?--well, then, suppose we
interpolate 'Reginald;' it has a smack of the Crusades. Augustus Reginald Dunshunner, Esq.
of--where, in the name of Munchausen!"

"I'm sure I don't know. I never had any land beyond the contents of a flower-pot. Stay--I rather
think I have a superiority somewhere about Paisley."

"Just the thing," cried Bob. "It's heritable property, and therefore titular. What's the denomination?"

"St Mirrens."

"Beautiful! Dunshunner of St Mirrens, I give you joy! Had you discovered that a little sooner--and
I wonder you did not think of it--we might both of us have had lots of allocations. These are
not the times to conceal hereditary distinctions. But now comes the serious work. We must have
one or two men of known wealth upon the list. The chaff is nothing without a decoy-bird. Now,
can't you help me with a name?"

"In that case," said I, "the game is up, and the whole scheme exploded. I would as soon undertake
to evoke the Ghost of Croesus."

