"What!" exclaimed Bermudo, affecting surprise, "cannot you guess my motives? Certainly, I do
not pretend to deny that by assisting you now, I chiefly mean to serve myself. You surely cannot
expect more from a perfect stranger, as you call me. Look at me, Christian!" he added, stifling
the conflict which was working in his bosom at the very sight of his foe; "behold, I am a Moor--a
miserable Moor. And what else but interest could prompt a destitute, a desperate man to proffer
his services to the proud and rich ones of the land?--Love, or esteem, or gratitude, think
you? No, never! My own interest I consult--consult yours, and decide."

"Interest!" cried Gomez Arias; "there is something reassuring in that word. I like to hear
a man talk of his interest, for then I am tempted to believe in his sincerity. What, then,
canst thou do for thy interest, Moor? Let us hear in what manner thou art able to serve me."

"I can do much," replied the renegade: "You, Don Lope Gomez Arias, are at present involved
in a most distressing predicament?"

"I am."

"And the source of your disquietude is a woman?"

"Proceed."

"Her name, Theodora?"

"Thou art indeed instructed in this affair--how cam'st thou by the knowledge?"--and he cast
a terrible look on the trembling Roque.

"Señor," cried Roque, "as I hope for salvation, I----"

"Silence, Sirrah!" exclaimed his master.

"Nay," observed the renegade, "blame not yon trembler; it is true that I applied to him before
I resolved upon offering you my services personally; but from fear, or some other reason, he
paid no regard to my proposal. I therefore waved all further ceremony, and knowing the crisis
to be at hand, I have seized this opportunity to address you."

"And what proposition hast thou to make?" demanded Don Lope.

"To remove from your path this obstacle to your ambition; to rid you immediately of Theodora."

"Fiend!" fiercely cried Gomez Arias, "thou darest not propose murder to me?"

"No, Christian," calmly returned Bermudo "dark as my form may be, and unseemly as my features
are, yet I would scorn to imbrue my hands in the blood of a woman: no, though a ruffian, I
am not yet sunk to the despicable wretch you suppose me. Theodora shall not suffer any indignity
from me, but merely be removed from Granada."

"And what security wouldst thou afford of thy adherence to this promise, should I be inclined
to enter into arrangements?"

"Security! the most firm and unbounded--the love which a Moor has conceived for her charms."

"What! art thou then the admirer?" sneeringly asked Gomez Arias.

"No!" indignantly exclaimed the renegade--"see you aught of that in me? Can the signs of any
tender sentiment be traced in my visage?"

"Well," muttered Roque, "methinks he speaks very sensibly."

"I cannot love," repeated the renegade; "but a Moor, my superior in rank, one whom I have bound
myself to serve, is powerfully stricken with the beauty of her you now wish to discard; he
will treat her with every consideration, and, in defiance of all disadvantages, is bent upon
gaining her love."

The eyes of Gomez Arias glistened with satisfaction as the renegade made these overtures, but
still he paused before he came to a determination. He eyed the stranger with the scrutiny of
a man resolved to analyze every feature, endeavouring to trace if any line of treachery were
discernible; but he beheld nothing to awaken his suspicions. That dark brow was smooth and
calm: for well aware of the examination to which he should be subjected by Gomez Arias, Bermudo
had prepared himself for an interview on which the success of his plans intimately depended.
Thus, his countenance evinced nothing but a gloomy composure, from which expression Gomez Arias
could gather no trace of the deeper designs that had urged him to proffer his services.

"Are you resolved?" inquired the renegade, after a pause.

"Where lives the Moor to whom Theodora must be committed?" inquired Don Lope. "Does he inhabit
this city? For in this case all further communication on the subject would be needless."

"No," answered the renegade, "he does not dwell in Granada, though not far from it at present:
more you shall learn this night, should you be disposed to admit my proposals: but you must
decide forthwith, as I shall be obliged to take my measures accordingly."

He folded his arms and gazed on Gomez Arias with seeming indifference.--Don Lope felt a moment's
hesitation: there was something in this mysterious transaction that imparted misgiving to his
mind; but the shortness of the time at his disposal, and the imminency of the danger, quickly
silenced his rising doubts. Roque, who perceived the inward conflict sustained by his master,
attempted, by a gentle remonstrance, to persuade him to discard the Moor's offer, but Don Lope
indignantly repulsed the presuming valet.

"Sirrah!" he said, "I need not thy counsel; if, when asked, thy humility will not permit thee
to give it, I marvel at thy presumption to offer thy opinion now."

"Moor, what are thy conditions?" he continued, bracing all his energies to a firm resolution.

"The price I shall expect," replied the renegade, "you are sensible must be commensurate with
the importance of my assistance."

"Certainly," exclaimed Gomez Arias, with a sneer: "what you consider a just remuneration will
no doubt be some exorbitant extortion."

"Christian!" retorted the renegade, "to show you that I place confidence in the magnitude of
my service, I shall leave the reward entirely to your generosity,--and now listen. At midnight
you must be with Theodora at the extremity of El cerro de los Martires;[41] the distance is
short from Granada, and can therefore soon be traversed. There I will wait for you, and there
you may likewise meet the noble Moor that employs me."

"I am resolved," cried Gomez Arias. "Yes, I will meet you at midnight then"--and rising, he
was about to withdraw, when the renegade gently detaining him--

"Stay," he said; "I must have a pledge to present to my master."

"What dost thou demand?" asked Don Lope.

"That ring," returned Bermudo, pointing to one that sparkled on the hand of Gomez Arias.

"I cannot part with this gem; it is a bauble, but one I must preserve; ask for another boon
three times as valuable, and it shall be granted thee."

"One does not hinder the other," said the renegade, dissembling. "Think you, Don Lope, that
the difficulty from which I disentangle you merits no other reward than a paltry ring? I must
have it for a pledge, and it shall be returned in due time for gold."

Gomez Arias cast a look of contempt on the Moor, who, thoroughly prepared for his part, most
efficaciously assumed the appearance of the mercenary he was then undertaking to personate.

"Well, what is it you resolve," he cried, with a malicious smile--"to part with a ring, or
keep the woman you detest?"

"Take it!" disdainfully replied Gomez Arias, throwing the required pledge on the ground.

The renegade humbly inclined himself to take it; but he could not so completely master his
feelings as not to betray some marks of the pleasure he felt at the possession of so precious
a gage. Gomez Arias, however, erroneously attributed these symptoms to the avaricious disposition
of the wretch who appeared willing to undertake any service for gold. He again cast a contemptuous
glance on the Moor, and making a sign to Roque, abruptly left the place. The renegade gave
a loose to the joy which swelled tumultuously in his bosom; he kissed the ring with wild demonstrations
of pleasure, and looking in the direction that Gomez Arias was gone--

"Now," he exclaimed, "my time is coming, and soon, proud Spaniard, wilt thou feel the power
of thy bitterest enemy."

CHAPTER XII.

    Cielos en que ha se parar
    Tan dificultosa empresa?

                                Lope de Vega.

    Quoi! tant de perfidie avec tant de courage?
    De crimes, de vertus, quel horrible assemblage!

                                Voltaire.

After the defeat of his companions at Alhacen, and the total annihilation of their hopes and
resources in that quarter, Bermudo the renegade had prudently fled to Granada. He knew he should
be in greater security in that city, from the mixed intercourse of Moors and Christians, than
by continuing in the wandering habits of a mountain life, now circumvented with numberless
dangers from the active searches which the Christians were making to destroy every rebel that
might be surprised lurking in suspicious places. The same course had been pursued by a considerable
number of the dispersed Moors, whilst others, less enterprising or more cautious, had concealed
themselves in obscure caverns and hiding places.

The renegade was one of the first that had arrived at Granada; and prudently mingling with
the crowd of joyous Christians, feigned to be exceedingly interested in the solemnity of the
day, when his attention was forcibly attracted by the appearance of a cavalcade in which he
recognized an object already familiar to his sight. Great as his surprise was, he could not
entertain a doubt that it was Theodora herself, Cañeri's fair captive, who now unexpectedly
struck his view. An impulse of curiosity induced him to follow her, until he perceived that
she was safely lodged in the mansion of Aguilar. From that instant, Bermudo had unremittingly
devoted his time to investigating this occurrence. He learnt with pleasure that his hated foe
was still alive. Nay, he had actually seen him; and, fervently bent on prosecuting every scheme
that might hold out a probability of forwarding his views of vengeance, he had succeeded in
his first inquiries to the full extent of his wishes. He had learnt the approaching wedding
of Gomez Arias, and, remembering the circumstance of Theodora's lamentations and despair on
the supposed death of that individual, he naturally concluded that there was some mystery,
which, if discovered, might be easily converted to his own advantage.

He had therefore artfully sought an acquaintance with Roque, the acknowledged servant of Gomez
Arias, and partly by insidious questions, and partly by his own penetration, he had drawn the
conclusion that Theodora was the forsaken mistress of Gomez Arias, brought by chance to the
very scene of his expectations, and who, if apprised of her lover's treachery, would afford
a powerful obstacle to his views. The renegade therefore seized the favorable opportunity which
presented itself, to accomplish the ruin of his hated foe, and determined to neglect no means
of accomplishing the revenge which had been his solitary pursuit for many years. But his plan
of operations was as deep and intricate as the motive that directed him was dark and diabolical.
Finding that Roque absolutely refused to open his proposal to his master, he resolved to break
the matter to him in person, and with this intention had proceeded to the public walks, as
already mentioned. His artful and wily behavour, assisted by the distracting position of Don
Lope's affairs, had betrayed the latter into that snare which the renegade had so cunningly
devised, and which, if followed up with success, would lead the unwary Gomez Arias towards
a labyrinth, in the mazes of which his destruction might be easily completed.

Thus Bermudo could not conceal his inward satisfaction when he found himself possessed of the
ring of Gomez Arias--a ring which he well recollected had been the gift of Queen Isabella,--a
precious gage, which, in the process of his fiendish machinations, might contribute materially
to their successful termination. While on the one hand the renegade was thus awaiting with
anxiety the result of every move in his diabolical game, and Don Lope on the other was congratulating
himself upon the speedy close of his heartless compact, the lovely but unfortunate subject
of both speculations was happy in comparative tranquillity at the palace of her preserver.

In perfect obedience to the urgent and repeated injunctions of her lover, Theodora kept herself
in seclusion in her apartment. Implicitly confiding in the promises and vows of Don Lope, and
fondly indulging in dreams of future bliss, she nevertheless felt a degree of disquietude,
natural to the high excitement into which her feelings had been thrown. The morning came--the
morning of that eventful day, and the commotion which prevailed throughout the palace, failed
not to interest Theodora, although the cause admitted of various interpretations. Now she fondly
imagined that Gomez Arias had already sought an interview with Aguilar, and made the necessary
disclosures; and then again she shuddered at the idea that the fond wishes in which she had
indulged might never be realized.

This state of anxiety and suspense was fortunately interrupted by Lisarda, who burst abruptly
into the room with looks of visible alarm. She turned about without ceremony, and before Theodora
could collect her thoughts to inquire into the reason of this perturbation--

"Santos Cielos!" she exclaimed, "here are fine doings! that it should come to this! fye--shame!
precisely at the very moment that---- well, before I would consent to be treated in this manner,
I'd suffer my eyes to be plucked out, and my tongue torn from the very root. After so much
preparation! Lord! Lord! to disappoint a whole family and throw so many honorable people into
confusion!"

Here the good Lisarda was compelled to take breath, of which Theodora most opportunely availed
herself to inquire into the cause of the disturbance.

"Now, gentle Lisarda," she said "tell me what has happened? No disaster to the family; I hope?"

"Alas!" screamed out Lisarda, perfectly recovered from her exhaustion, "your hopes, lady, unhappily,
cannot prevent the disaster, for truly a most terrible disaster it is,--fraud and insolence,
and most abominable perjury is in the case, I am sure. Yes, the family has been treated this
morning with the most untimely and vexatious incivility. Such a breach of delicacy and decorum
never did I witness before. Virgen Santa! how will this end? The Lord knows that I, for my
part, never felt tranquil on the score of the gallant.--No, no; I always said Don Rodrigo for
my money--but that is neither here nor there; the evil is done, and we must stand the results.
Really it is provoking--such a beautiful dress I had prepared, and now to defer the ceremony!"

"Defer what ceremony?" eagerly inquired Theodora.

"The wedding to be sure," responded Lisarda. "What, did I not tell you before?"

"In sooth you did not."

"Really? God defend us! I am a most thoughtless silly girl, that is certain. Why, my good lady,
what should be deferred but the wedding?"

"And that is the misfortune, then, which has occasioned such uncommon signs of regret?" demanded
Theodora, scarcely able to conceal her inward satisfaction.

"To be sure, lady; and by my troth, it strikes me that the subject is well worthy the mortification
it has caused us all. Good heavens! had the accident happened to you, my sweet lady, perchance
you might not be inclined to endure it so philosophically. But the Lord save me! if you do
not appear to rejoice in this calamity!"

"Rejoice! heavens! what do you mean?" cried Theodora, blushing deeply, and striving to conceal
her emotion. "What can induce you to suppose I could have so perverse a disposition, as to
rejoice at an event that is evidently annoying and distressing to my kind and generous benefactor?"

"Dear lady, take not amiss my observation, but as sure as I am a Christian, and hope for salvation,
you are much altered for the better since yesterday."

Having communicated the news of the palace to her fair charge, the good Lisarda bustled away
to learn further particulars. Theodora soon after received a visit from the noble Don Alonso,
on whose countenance were strongly depicted the signs of displeasure. Theodora easily divined
the cause, and though she rejoiced in the termination of an event, in which her happiness was
so deeply interested, she could not suppress a sensation of generous pity, at the idea that
she was the immediate, though innocent, cause of her benefactor's disappointment.

With the simplicity congenial to her nature, she more than once during this interview felt
a strong desire to throw herself at the feet of Aguilar, and frankly to avow the whole of her
melancholy tale; yet she was restrained from following the genuine impulse of her heart, when
she recollected her lover's absolute command. Thus, although her delicacy and frankness were
hurt at the duplicity she was compelled to use towards one by whom she had been rescued from
the most appalling fate, she stifled the suggestions of sincerity, to observe implicitly the
wishes of a man who was even then planning her future misery and misfortune. Nor was this the
only trial that Theodora had to sustain. She had been obliged to resist the invitation of Aguilar,
who repeatedly pressed her to make her appearance in the grand saloon, and she had the mortification
of suspecting, that an unfavorable construction was put upon her denial. They might attribute
to female caprice, or a want of proper feelings for a generous benefactor, that which in reality
was the mere effect of a sensitive mind and a devoted heart.

Theodora underwent all these trials with patient resignation, in the fond expectation of a
speedy deliverance from her present irksome situation. In this uninterrupted succession of
doubt and fear she spent the long and tedious day, and hailed with transport the arrival of
night, which was now enveloping in her sable mantle the proud turrets and lofty buildings of
Granada.

CHAPTER XIII.

    Per gli antri, e per le selve ognun traea
    Allor la vita, nè fra setà, o lane
    Le sue ruvide membra ravvolgea.

    Metastasio.

At a short distance from Granada there is a place called El cerro de los Martires,[42] which
traditionary lore had invested with most appalling histories. This place abounded in deep caverns
and subterranean vaults, in which it was a received tradition that the Moors used in former
times to shut their Christian captives, and make them undergo dreadful torments. By the vicissitudes
of fortune, however, these dungeons were now converted into secure retreats by the fallen and
dispersed Moors. Several of these lurking places had already been traced out by the unwearied
perseverance of the Spaniards, or betrayed through the treachery of mercenary Moors, but there
still were some remaining which baffled every research, and whose existence known only to some
of the principal and most faithful Moors, were in no danger at least of immediate discovery.

To these subterraneous habitations a considerable portion of the shattered forces of Cañeri
had repaired, whilst some of the bolder party of El Feri de Benastepar had fearlessly sought
refuge in Granada, where, in despite of the severe decrees promulgated by the queen, and the
examples made of those who had infringed them, the rebels nevertheless found shelter and protection
from their fellow-countrymen. Thus while the rebellion seemed quelled to all appearance, it
was not entirely extinguished. A secret fire still slumbered under the ashes, ready to burst
forth when a master hand could be found to raise the flame. But the want of unity amongst the
Moors, and the general dispersion which had ensued after the destruction of their last town,
seemed to offer an insurmountable bar to the organization of a second revolt. Besides, the
death of El Feri had struck the hearts of his followers with dismay, and there was no Moor
of sufficient talent or enterprize to supply his place.

Things were in this state, when at the close of a sultry day three men were seen cautiously
traversing the path which led towards El cerro de los Martires. The foremost, who appeared
to act as guide, from his robust and athletic make, and the lowering expression of his countenance,
might be easily recognized as Bermudo, the renegade; the others were strangers, and apparently
disguised. They proceeded onwards, slowly, and with care, until at length they stopped at a
sequestered spot, overgrown with brambles, and surrounded with high and widely spreading trees,
whose sombre foliage offered an impenetrable barrier to the light of day. They plunged into
the midst of this wilderness, and presently the renegade blew a soft and hollow blast, when
the thicket suddenly seemed to move, and discovered an aperture which had hitherto been concealed.
The two Moors, for such they were, and their guide, then descended through the opening into
a deep and winding subterraneous passage. After a descent of a few minutes, they found themselves
in a spacious vault hewn out of the solid rock and illumined by a solitary lamp, which afforded
only light sufficient to render the darkness more dismal, and to give an indistinct view of
forms and countenances naturally repulsive, rendered still more so by apparent want and exhaustion.
About a dozen men and two or three women were reposing at length in different parts of the
cave, without any other covering than their tattered dresses, and bearing on their features
an expression of resolute despair.

At the further extremity of the cavern, which was somewhat elevated, and rendered more tenantable
by several pieces of an old carpet, reclined a man of better appearance, whose apparel had
evidently not undergone such severe service as those of his companions. This personage it might
easily be supposed was the chief of those who, from their exterior, might, without any great
deviation from the rules of inferences, be denominated a gang of desperate robbers. But it
seldom happens that robbers in the vicinity of a rich and populous city are to be found in
a state of such utter destitution; and if such were really the case, it might puzzle the beholder
to discover what possible inducement they could have to continue in so unprofitable a profession.

As soon as the renegade and his two companions entered that cheerless and uncomfortable dwelling,
all those woe-begone and lugubrious countenances suddenly acquired a degree of animation. It
was not without reason; for the renegade and one of his companions laid down some provisions,
whilst the other stood with his arms folded, a calm spectator of these proceedings, contemplating
with deep attention the group before him.

"Alagraf! Malique!" cried the seated personage above designated: "Who is that stranger?"

"Fear not, Cañeri," whispered the renegade, "this is a friend--nay, perhaps the sincerest adherent
and the bravest supporter of the Moors in their present condition."

"Certainly from his proud bearing in our presence," replied Cañeri, with offended dignity,
"one might, indeed, be led to suppose him a person of consequence, did not those unseemly habiliments
contradict such a conclusion."

The stranger answered not, but contented himself with casting a look of mingled pity and scorn
on the mighty potentate of the cavern. The chief, however, was prevented from inquiring more
minutely into the pretensions of one who appeared little disposed to pay him unqualified deference,
by the shrill and croaking voice of Marien Rufa, who at that moment was actively engaged in
heaping a redundance of abuse on the devoted head of her husband Aboukar. The squabble, as
far as it could be ascertained amidst the confused din, originated in some provisions which
the provident Aboukar, in his capacity of ex-master of the household, judiciously concluded
ought to come by right under his control; accordingly, secundum artem, he had entered on his
official duties by secreting a portion of the said provisions for his own private use, before
they were either served up to Cañeri, or finally distributed amongst his hungry and rapacious
band. Marien Rufa had observed the sly larceny, but what in the name of conjugal regard could
have induced the crone to so unkind and unmatrimonial an action as the exposure of her own
husband, is not easily to be determined. An upright and indulgent person might be tempted to
believe it was a proper regard and tenderness for the purity of his character; but others,
not quite so considerate, would suspect, and perhaps with a nearer semblance of truth, that
the unamiable spouse was instigated by a less honorable motive. It was a fact, not to be contradicted,
that Marien Rufa and her once beloved Aboukar, at present detested as cordially as they had
formerly loved each other; which curious phenomenon in the condition of matrimony is not of
such rare occurrence as to need any particular investigation into its nature or origin.

As soon as Cañeri observed the disturbance, conjecturing from the character of the belligerents
that the commotion was likely to increase apace, he rose suddenly from his seat, an action
which clearly indicated the extent of his indignation, and with vehemence exclaimed--

"Silence! What means this disturbance? Slaves, is this your respect for your chief? Explain;
what is the cause of this unwarrantable breach of decorum?"

No sooner had Cañeri uttered the word "explain," than Marien Rufa, conscious no doubt of her
explanatory talents, in a most discordant tone began:--

"Please your Mightiness, the cause of----"

"Stop, stop," cried Cañeri; "I do not wish thee to explain." Then, turning, he demanded an
explanation from Malique, who, in a few words, corroborated the statement of Marien Rufa respecting
the ugly trick of which Aboukar stood accused. Upon this, Cañeri, after pondering some time,
and gently striking his forehead as if to conjure some luminous idea,--

"Malique," he cried, "bring hither the source of contention."

The provisions were immediately placed before him, and the sapient chief, after putting aside
a portion for his own use, wisely proceeded to give his judgment.

"Here, Malique," he said, "distribute these amongst you all, except the convicted culprit and
his accuser."

This retributive justice was greatly applauded by the surrounding party, whose looks clearly
indicated the high opinion they entertained of their chief's wise decision; although their
ravenous hunger might have, indeed, contributed somewhat to the enhancement of their approbation.
The renegade and the new comer stood silent spectators of the scene, but they could not disguise
the expression of their contempt both for the degraded state of their companions, and the foolish
importance with which the vain-glorious Cañeri comported himself.

Peace being thus restored by the chief's sagacious intervention,--

"Now, Alagraf," he said, "what tidings dost thou bring from Granada? Will thy expectations
be fulfilled, and my wishes crowned with success? What further inquiries hast thou made relating
to Theodora?"

"I have not been idle," sullenly answered the renegade.

"And yet," returned Cañeri, "I fear exceedingly that our mutual hopes will be disappointed."

"Not so, Cañeri," retorted Bermudo; "but this is no time to enter upon that subject, for another
of greater importance has a previous claim to our notice."

"By the holy Prophet!" exclaimed Cañeri, with displeasure, "I should imagine that an affair
in which I am interested, is, of itself, sufficient to command immediate attention: Explain,
then," he added impatiently, "that which concerns me most."

"Moor!" cried the renegade with anger, "thou surely must forget that I am not thy slave: no,
by my sword, I will not speak of these matters until I think the time befitting."

Cañeri was thunderstruck at this open act of insubordination; he rolled his eyes in choler,
and looked on his band as if appealing to them to chastise the insolence of the renegade. But
though those bold words had thrown the Moors into some consternation, yet no one dared to move
a step, so much were they awed by the composed demeanor with which the renegade gazed upon them.

"Alagraf," said Cañeri, disguising his indignation, "are then my injunctions openly to be disregarded
before my people?"

"Cañeri," answered the renegade resolutely, "you urge me too far, and you ought to know me better."

A murmur of discontent prevailed among the band, which was about to break forth against the
renegade, when, suddenly, their movement was checked by the stranger Moor, who advanced towards
them in a threatening attitude.

"Peace!" he exclaimed; "peace! ye abject, paltry slaves!"

"And who art thou," demanded Cañeri, trembling with rage, "that darest thus arrogate to thyself
the power of dictating in my presence?"

"I am, Cañeri," answered the stranger haughtily, "thy superior in all, except in vice."

"Seize him!" roared out Cañeri. "Seize the wretch!"

"Stay!" cried Malique, interposing; "lay not your hands upon that man.--Most mighty Cañeri,"
he then added, addressing the indignant chief, "Mohabed Alhamdem, our opulent brother at Granada,
has intrusted that Moor to our care, commanding us to lead him hither; he has most important
matters to communicate, and, if the word of Mohabed is to be credited, it is from this stranger
alone that the Moors may expect their salvation."

"Who, then, is this mighty personage?" demanded Cañeri, with a scornful sneer.

"He will himself inform you," replied the renegade. "Cañeri, you know how firmly I am devoted
to the Moorish cause; why then was I insulted when it was only to advance the interests of
that cause I spoke? But let that pass; I am no pettish boy to quarrel with my associates for
a word uttered intemperately in an unguarded moment."

He held his hand in token of reconciliation, and then continued:--"Theodora, if appearances
amounting almost to certainty deceive me not, will be yours, ere long."

"Is it possible?" exclaimed Cañeri. "When?"

"To-night or never," replied Bermudo. "Shortly I shall disclose to you all the particulars
of my transaction; and now let us examine on what resources we can depend for a renewal of
the insurrection."

"Resources! None," said Cañeri, "Our surviving men are dispersed and worn out by repeated misfortunes;
most of our chiefs are dead, or have passed over to Africa, and the only man who had the power
of rallying the straggling Moors, he who alone succeeded in imparting confidence to his followers,
El Feri de Benastepar, is now no more: fallen by the arm of Aguilar, he shared the fate of
those brave men who mingled their own ashes with those of Alhacen."

"El Feri de Benastepar is not dead," cried the renegade.

Cañeri and his men started from the ground with an instinctive impulse of returning courage,
and all, with one accord, sent up an exclamation of joyful surprise.

"But where is the chief, then?" demanded Cañeri.

"There!" replied Bermudo, pointing to the stranger.

"Yes," said he, throwing aside his disguise; "yes, Cañeri, in this humble garb, which necessity
has compelled me to adopt, do you again behold El Feri; conquered by Alonso de Aguilar, but
miraculously rescued from the grasp of death to redeem the tarnished glories of the Moorish
name; to close again in combat with the proud Christian chief, and, with the assistance of
the holy Prophet, to doom him to that untimely death which he vainly imagines he has inflicted
on me."

A simultaneous murmur of approbation ran through the surrounding party; even Cañeri, jealous
as he was of the superior power and glory of El Feri, hailed with real satisfaction his unexpected
appearance amongst them; for in the imagination of Cañeri were revived those hopes of asserting
the station of fancied dignity from which he had been hurled by the late overthrow of the Moors.
He again clung to the fond idea that the Moslem cause would ultimately triumph, and then he
of necessity must succeed to a conspicuous share of power, to which he conceived himself entitled
by his distinguished birth.

Thus the Moors, whom, but a moment before, we have seen in the lowest state of dejection, now
flew to the opposite extreme: they pictured to their fancy the wonderful powers of El Feri,
and the magic influence which his name would possess in calling again his countrymen to arms,
while the desperate nature of such an undertaking, and the obstacles with which it was on every
side beset, vanished altogether before their sanguine expectations.

The renegade beheld this general emotion with more signs of discontent than satisfaction; he
argued little advantage to be derived from men, who could so easily pass from the depths of
despondence to the summit of hope; for to a man like himself, endowed with strong passions,
but accustomed to watch progressively their workings, such sudden transitions betrayed a weakness
utterly incompatible with desperate enterprises.

"But how," now inquired Cañeri, addressing El Feri, "has thy precious life been preserved?"

"When I fell by the arm of Aguilar," returned El Feri, "it was more from the excessive fatigue
which I had for several days endured, than from the nature of the wounds inflicted--they were
not mortal; and as I lay extended and helpless on the ground, I thought upon my country, and
my heart sunk within me when I considered that my life, which might still have been preserved
to her service, would soon, alas! be lost in a fiery grave. The town was deserted--nought was
heard but the crackling of the flames, and the groans of those that were dying around me. Our
enemies were gone, and I, collecting my small remaining strength, with much difficulty contrived
to drag myself from that place of desolation. At length, exhausted, I sunk under a tree, and
there, for want of timely assistance, I might have breathed my last, when, to my joy, I observed
two or three of our party, who had escaped in the general confusion, advancing towards me,
and the hopes which had almost abandoned me again began to revive. My preservers removed me
immediately to a place of security, and administered all the remedies that their limited means
could afford. When I had sufficiently recovered my strength, in various disguises we arrived
at Granada, and made ourselves known to Mohabed Alhamdem: at his dwelling the plan of a second
rising has been concerted, and I am come here to ask your support to the undertaking."

"Noble and beloved companion," replied Cañeri, "next to the pleasure of seeing thee alive,
comes, certainly, that of hearing thy proposal. I rejoice that, notwithstanding our little
trivial disagreements, thou hast thought of me in the hour of an important crisis: command
me freely, and command all mine."

As he delivered these words with his habitual affectation of dignity, he looked around upon
his reduced followers, who all inclined their heads in token of blind acquiescence.

"And is this all thou canst command, Cañeri?" asked El Feri.

"No, not all; for at a moment's notice, I can assemble a considerable number, now prudently
scattered in little parties, the better to avoid observation. They lie concealed in some neighbouring
caves, and will at the first summons readily obey my orders. But what are thy designs, my noble
friend? Dost thou contemplate the surprise of some fort? or hast thou in meditation a second
expedition to the Sierra Nevada?

"Neither;" replied El Feri: "my plans of operation are now widely different; I mean to strike
the blow far from the city of Granada: more I will impart to thee at a future period. Art thou
well determined to second my exertions?"

"Yes," answered Cañeri, bowing his head. "In the name of the holy Prophet, I swear to follow
thy instructions."

"Well then," returned El Feri, satisfied, "this very night I set out for the Sierra Bermeja,
attended only by Mohabed and a servant: that opulent Moor has enthusiastically joined our cause,
and several of his friends, slow to contribute with their persons towards the result, have
at least liberally assisted us with their gold. Thou, Cañeri, must not tarry here, but with
the utmost expedition march to Alhaurin, a town neglected by the Christians, which thou wilt
easily surprise; this is to serve as a rallying place for all those who may flock to our standard.
I am assured that the mountain inhabitants of the Sierra Bermeja are prepared to join me,--thus,
while the proud Spaniard triumphs in security, and rejoices at the supposed death of El Feri,
he will suddenly dissolve the charm, and summon his enemies again to encounter the effects
of his wrath and vengeance. And now, Cañeri, remember that Alagraf and Malique are the only
persons through whom we are to communicate: so to your post, and there await my further instructions.
Farewell! and when we meet again, may victory have rewarded our exertions!"

He said; and the two chiefs taking friendly leave of each other, El Feri, without delay, returned
to Granada. Cañeri, scarcely able to contain his joy, rose and paced around the cave as if
he were already dictating from his palace at Alhacen.

"Now, my brave followers!" he cried, suddenly halting, "be prepared to march at a moment's notice."

Such an injunction was perfectly useless; for it so happened that his gallant followers had
no other preparation to make than to rise and march, having no baggage to encumber their operations
beyond the very slender equipments which they carried on their persons.

"But!" exclaimed Cañeri, in the midst of his exultation, "Alagraf, if we depart immediately,
how is thy promise concerning the fair Christian to be fulfilled?"

"Fear not, Cañeri," answered the renegade; "I have promised you that Theodora will be yours
to-night or never."

"Or never!" re-echoed Cañeri, dismally shaping his face into most unwarrantable elongation:
"Or never! We have yet some time to remain, and I would gladly wait for such a prize."

"It wants," observed the renegade, "but an hour to midnight,--the time approaches,--my heart
feels confident Theodora, will soon be in your power, and I shall then have the means of accomplishing
my revenge."

CHAPTER XIV.

    Si! m'ingannai: scerner dovea, che in petto
    Di un traditor mai solo un tradimento
    Non entra.

                                Alfieri.

    Le cruel, hélas! il me quitte,
    Il me laisse sans nul appui!

                                Berquin.

"In the name of Heaven, Don Lope," said Roque; "let me again conjure you to pause before you
finally resolve upon this undertaking: my heart misgives me strangely."

"Thy heart," replied Gomez Arias, "is a most impertinent monitor. Simple man! what other course
is left me to pursue?--Is it thy wish that I should relinquish the most glorious prize, at
the very moment of its attainment, from a pusillanimous fear of consequences? Already so far
advanced, must I shrink from an honorable alliance with Leonor? By heaven! I cannot; I will
not. Prudence, consistency, honor, forbid!

"But, saving your displeasure," interposed Roque, "methinks that same honor of which you appear
so tenacious, cannot urge you to betray an unfortunate girl into the hands of infidel Moors.
And although your present situation is certainly fraught with difficulties, there may yet be
found some other way of proceeding with regard to Theodora, not altogether so frightful."

"No, Roque, none. We have now no longer time to think; we must act, and act without wasting
a single precious moment.--Go, dispatch, deliver this letter to Theodora, and conduct her to
the place that I have already pointed out. The night is fast advancing; dispatch; and be faithful
in the discharge of my orders. This step is unavoidable, and to its necessity even thou thyself
wilt be reconciled, though at present it may awaken in thy bosom a foolish sentiment of pity,
or fear, I know not which."

Roque attempted no farther expostulation, but heaving a sigh, and casting his eyes to heaven,
proceeded to the discharge of his commission, whilst his master hurried to the solitary spot
where he had decided they should meet. Roque, in that wavering mood so natural to his character,
alike unfit for good or evil, made his way to Don Alonso's garden, deliberating within himself
on the course he ought to follow. Pity and remorse, at intervals, made him shrink with dismay
from the picture of wretchedness which the unfortunate Theodora presented to his view. There
was something so iniquitous and unmanly in betraying the unsuspecting and lovely victim, that
the feelings of the valet, though far from being refined, revolted from the participation:
once or twice he had even resolved to acquaint Theodora with the premeditated plot, but these
momentary impulses of his better feelings were soon checked for want of strength to follow
up the generous suggestion. The awe with which Roque beheld his master, and the dread of the
results which his disclosure might produce in the mind of the victim, powerfully contributed
to silence the voice of conscience. Then he hoped that the marriage once over, measures might
be taken for the security and comfort of Theodora; and finally he fondly admitted the hope,
or rather forced his rebellious mind to encourage it, that Gomez Arias would relent at the
sight of the unhappy girl, and that he would then fix upon some other expedient less distressing
and criminal.

In this conflict, he arrived at the palace, and entering by a private gate into the garden,
he approached the window of Theodora's apartment. The anxious girl, who had been all the day
on the alert, immediately descended, and stood by the side of Roque.

"Where is he?" she eagerly cried, upon meeting the valet.

"Prudence," replied Roque, "has obliged him, much against his inclination, to keep aloof; but
here is a letter which will explain his motives, and the course that you are immediately to adopt."

Theodora ran over the contents of the letter in a trepidation of anxiety, and closed the perusal
of it by imprinting the fervent kisses of love and devotion on the vile instrument of treachery.

"Let us make haste," she then said, and without waiting for Roque to lead the way, she hurried
through the garden upon the wings of affection. The valet's heart misgave him, when he beheld
her speeding with such haste to her destruction. He contrasted the devoted confidence of Theodora,
hurrying to the fatal spot, with the duplicity and heartlessness of Gomez Arias tranquilly
awaiting her arrival. Roque led her towards the place appointed; nor could he suppress a tear,
as he listened to the artless language in which her full heart indulged during the way, in
the fond expectation of being again united to her lover, and obtaining the forgiveness of her
beloved parent. They arrived at length at the place. It was a beautiful night, unsullied by
a breath of wind. The eager eyes of Theodora were strained to catch as soon as possible a sight
of the dear object of her solicitude. She perceived at the further extremity a man enveloped
in a cloak, and standing beside three horses. She gazed intensely; her bosom throbbed with
emotion,--forward she hurried--she flew; and in a moment, with all the enthusiasm of her fond
nature, threw herself into the arms of her lover.

Gomez Arias received the tender pressure with feelings hard to be defined. Distracted with
conflicting passions, he appeared unable to act the part which he had judged necessary in this
critical moment, while the loving Theodora, despite of her infatuation, could not but observe
the coldness and restraint evident in his manner.

"What ails you, Lope?" she said, soothingly "are you not happy?"

"Happy! yes, Theodora, I am happy; but be not astonished at my disquietude: for alas! in my
distracting situation I can feel no otherwise; the step which I am about to take----"

"Oh! I am sensible!" cried Theodora, earnestly, "of the extent of the sacrifice; I know the
glorious prospects you relinquish by renouncing the hand of Leonor. Yes, I am indeed, aware
of all the distressing circumstances that may ensue from the resolution you have taken. But,
oh, Lope! will not the unutterable love, the fervid devotion of your poor Theodora, afford
you some requital for the advantages which your honor obliges you to abandon?"

She looked fondly in his countenance. A tear stood trembling upon her eye, but in her lover's
she beheld no sign of mutual tenderness. He coldly assisted her to mount, and bidding Roque
follow, for some time they continued their route in silence. Theodora, however, in the gentleness
of her nature, was disposed to deceive herself, and without hesitation attributed her lover's
strange behaviour to the difficult situation in which he was placed. Nor could she feel hurt
when she considered that it was for her sake that Gomez Arias exhibited this disquietude. She
had secured the most important object of her life, and was not so selfish or unfeeling as to
reproach him with a conduct which she hoped would soon be changed. But the arguments of reason
are not always in accordance with the suggestions of feeling. Her mind commanded her to be
satisfied, but her heart, in acquiescing with those dictates, was not entirely at ease, though
she sedulously endeavoured to conceal her emotion from Gomez Arias. Her efforts, however, were
not always successful, and the deep sighs that escaped her bosom, naturally attracted the notice
of her lover. He, therefore, artfully strove, by bestowing some passing tokens of affection,
to reassure the victim he was leading to the sacrifice. But the art of man, though it may succeed
in imitating the various passions which agitate the human breast, is rarely successful when
he attempts to feign the more tender sentiments of the heart; for cold must always be the language
addressed to one, who has been the object of a fervid passion, when that passion is unhappily
extinct. No powers of art--not all the force of imagination can call into life fresh flowers
on the barren waste of a heart that no longer loves.

As they approached El cerro de los Martires Theodora suddenly began to sob aloud, and Gomez
Arias foresaw the dreadful scene he should have to sustain before he could finally disengage
himself from the sorrowing girl.

"Theodora, why do you weep?" he asked in a tender tone.

"Alas! I know not," she answered. "But my heart is heavy--I feel as though some misfortune
were impending. Whither are we going?--surely this is not the road to my father's mansion?
Lope! Lope! whither are you leading me?" she inquired, in a thrilling voice of distress.

Steeled as it was against compassion, the heart of Gomez Arias felt moved at the question.
Roque was exceedingly affected, and a groan escaped him as he piously ejaculated--"Heaven protect
her!"

Theodora heard the exclamation; for nothing that bodes ill can evade the acute sense of misery.

"Thank you, good Roque," she said, mournfully. "But why call on the protection of heaven? My
own Lope, are we in danger?"

Gomez Arias did not answer; for a feeling akin to remorse arose within him, as he thought on
the treacherous duplicity he was about to practice against one whose very existence seemed
to depend upon his love. They had now crossed El cerro de los Martires, and were ascending
a little slope, when suddenly three or four persons sprung from their concealment, and checked
their further advance. The moon shone brilliantly, so that every object could be plainly distinguished,
and Theodora saw with dismay the forms that were moving towards them, as if with the express
determination of intercepting their passage.

"They are Moors!" she exclaimed. "Oh, heavens! what can they want in this solitary place at
the dead of night? Surely they must be some of those desperate people, who have been left houseless
and forlorn in the late rebellion. Alas! they will retaliate on us all the horrors which they
have suffered. My dear Lope, if we must die, it will be at least some consolation to meet death
with thee."

She looked earnestly on her lover, but could trace no emotion in his features; they were composed.
The present feelings of Gomez Arias partook of no alarm, and the unfortunate Theodora felt
a fearful presentiment, as she perceived the unmoved expression of his countenance; for though
the bravery of her lover might not allow him to dread the approach of death, for his own sake,
yet, surely, her own danger ought to create in his mind some sensation of anxiety. In this
frightful agony of thought, Theodora remained until they came up with the individuals who had
awakened her fears. One of them now detached himself from the group, and advanced to address
Gomez Arias, who had checked his horse to await his coming. What was the horror of Theodora
when she recognized in the person that stood before them, the dreaded form of the renegade!
She uttered a faint scream; and had not Gomez Arias prevented her, she would have fallen to
the ground.

"So, Don Lope," said the renegade, "you have kept your word: I could expect no less from the
noble Gomez Arias."

"And who are thy companions?" inquired Don Lope.

"There stands," replied Bermudo, pointing to Cañeri, "the illustrious Moor of whom I spoke--so
the sooner we proceed to our arrangements, the better."

The mutual understanding which appeared to subsist between Gomez Arias and the renegade, and
the heartless manner in which the last words were delivered, left not a doubt in the mind of
Theodora, that some treacherous design was in contemplation. Her fears were soon confirmed;
for Gomez Arias, turning to her, in a tone of pity, began----

"Theodora, I will not attempt to palliate the conduct which necessity obliges me to pursue;
but the circumstances in which I am placed admit of no alternative. We must part for ever--nor
can I for a moment prolong a scene, which must be so distressing to your feelings. It consoles
me, however, to think that I can place you in the care of those who have pledged themselves
to treat you with every consideration."

Saying this, he threw himself from his horse, and found no difficulty in bearing to the ground
the yielding form of Theodora. She could not speak; amazement had absorbed all the powers of
her mind, and benumbed the principle of will and action. She stood wildly gazing on vacancy,
like one conscious of labouring under a dreadful dream, and striving to awake from the painful
illusion. But when Cañeri advanced, when she actually saw his hated figure standing before
her with a smile of exulting joy, she seemed suddenly to regain all her powers of recollection.

"'Tis he!" she cried franticly, "'tis he. Oh! horror!"--She ran wildly towards her lover.

"Oh, Lope, deliver me from him."

"No, young lady," returned the Moor, "you must now come with me."

"Oh, heaven!" she shrieked, "no, no, he cannot--he will not thus abandon me!--Oh, Lope!--my
dear--my own beloved!--undeceive this barbarous, this abhorred Moor."

She appealed to her lover in the fervour of deep anguish,--he turned from her to depart; the
moment was bitter; he felt the rankling pangs of remorse. The wretched girl clung to him,--he
made one desperate struggle to disengage himself.

"Moor, take her," he cried with throbbing emotion, "but oh! deal thou more kindly by her than
I have done. Here," he continued, "receive this, and see that she is treated with the regard
which her beauty merits, and her misfortunes deserve. Act faithfully to thy pledge, or dread
the worst effects of my vengeance."

He threw a large purse of gold upon the ground, which Malique lost no time in securing, whilst
Cañeri, addressing Gomez Arias,--

"Christian," he said, "I fear not thy vengeance, and I value not thy gifts; the word of a Moor
is plighted; I love the beauteous female, and these considerations will afford the best security
for my conduct."

He then advanced to take the hand of Theodora, but she flew from him with a look of wildness
that might have moved the very stones to pity.

"Oh! no, no, never! Gomez Arias, you may be cruel, but cannot be infamous.--Oh, do not, do
not deliver me into the hands of the detested enemy of our country--the ferocious, the false
Cañeri."

"What!" exclaimed Gomez Arias, surprised, "is this, then, Cañeri, the rebel chief?"

"The same," replied the renegade, interposing; "will that be an obstacle to our agreement?"

Gomez Arias remained a few minutes in silence; he felt an inward disquiet he could not well
explain; the name of Cañeri had awakened a new and painful sensation; it recalled to his mind
the edicts of the queen, which he was on the point of violating by holding intercourse with
the rebel; but again he thought that the elevated situation to which he would be shortly exalted
might sufficiently secure him against any danger, should even this transaction ever come to
light, of which he could not foresee the slightest probability.

Meantime, poor Roque, who perceived the hesitation of his master, ventured to approach him,
and with a voice agitated with fear,--

"Oh, my dear master," he said, "if it is not too late, let us retreat from this dreaded spot;
do not conclude this hellish treaty, for be assured it will prove the destruction of your fortunes,
if there is an omnipotence above or justice amongst men."

It was too late; the heart that could not yield to the voice of its own conscience, was not
easily to be moved by the expostulation of a dependant. Gomez Arias had now advanced too far
to retrace his steps; it was a fearful deed, but he relied with implicit confidence on its
being for ever buried in silence. Then, without further delay, he made a sign to the renegade
in token of agreement, and turned towards Granada.

Theodora became frantic; with a desperate effort she flew to her lover; a dismal, harrowing
shriek quivered through the inmost fibres of her heart; and then she spoke not, but clung to
Gomez Arias with the fearful might arising from despair. Her face was hidden in his bosom,
her pulse beat not, and the spark of life seemed extinct. Gomez Arias gently endeavoured to
extricate himself from her firm embrace; she again became conscious of his intention, and in
the paroxysm of agony she exclaimed--

"Barbarian! have I deserved this from you?"

Roque now sobbed aloud like a child, and Gomez Arias himself was moved; but the renegade, fearful
of the results of the scene, advanced to claim his victim.

"Oh, my honored master!" cried Roque, "does not this harrowing picture of despair move the
kinder feelings of your heart?--you once loved her tenderly, and were it only for the remembrance
of what she was, spare her now."

Gomez Arias felt the rebuke; it soured his temper and confirmed him in his purpose. He was
indignant at the freedom of his dependant, and darted on him a withering look of displeasure.
But Roque, who had now acquired a strength of mind and courage, of which his nature till then
had seemed wholly destitute, in a bold tone began--

"Shame to the man who calls himself noble, and can behave in this manner towards a helpless
woman! Don Lope, this is a fearful deed, and, mark me well, the time will come at last, the
time of terrible retribution."

The brow of Gomez Arias grew black as a storm, and every suggestion of pity at once vanished.

"Villain!" he cried, in a voice choaked with rage, "is it a base born varlet like thee, that
dare utter such threats to me! Moor--" he added, turning to the renegade, "take this fellow
into your charge, and see that he does not return to Granada; I will reward thee well."

The renegade gave a token of assent, and made a sign to his companions to secure him.

"And what right," said Roque, indignantly, "have you to sell me thus? I am a free born man,
and a true Christian."

"Roque," replied Gomez Arias, somewhat more composedly, "I have often warned thee that thy
indiscretion would at length bring thee into trouble and disgrace. Thy offence merits even
a more exemplary punishment, which I will spare in consideration of thy former services. Away
with him, Moors," he added, "and take him to the distant country whither you are going, for
here he may prove dangerous to me."

"Aye," returned Bermudo, in a voice of import, "we will take him in charge, for as you say,
Don Lope, he may indeed be dangerous to you."

These words, though nothing in themselves, were uttered with a mysterious meaning that sounded
ominous to Gomez Arias. He felt as though a cloud was darkening over the ambitious prospects
which had seduced his mind and perverted his heart; the voice that spoke rung in his ear like
an awful warning of which he had some strange recollection. Again he attempted to escape from
the scene. One sudden powerful effort, and he loosened himself from the grasp of Theodora:
the despairing girl fell to the ground, and raved aloud, and pronounced a curse on her betrayer.
Then in the furious impulse of madness, she snatched at the dagger that glittered in the girdle
of Cañeri, with the determination of closing her wretched existence; but her deadly intention
was thwarted by the renegade, who arrested her arm in time to prevent the fatal deed.

Gomez Arias now sprung upon his horse, and Cañeri took the hand of Theodora; but she furiously
darted from him, and sought to fly after her lover, who was speeding fast away.

"Oh stay!" she continued, crying in a tone of agony; "Oh stay, Lope! complete your work--in
pity kill me. One crime more will not make you unacceptable to her you love. Return! return!
oh Lope, in the name of heaven!--Not for me, but for the love of Leonor, do not leave me thus!
Oh Lope, do not leave me thus!"

Gomez Arias, as he sped away, heard the piteous appeal dying faintly on the wind, and he plunged
the rowels into his courser's sides, to escape the harrowing sensation which such accents produced.
Soon the mournful cries were lost in the distance, and the wretched Theodora, at length exhausted
and overpowered, fell senseless on the ground. The Moors easily succeeded in bearing her away,
while poor Roque, who followed close, seemed, out of pity for her, to be reconciled to his
own fate. III.

                                Voltaire.

The pathetic and heart-rending lamentations of Theodora rung ominous in the ears of Gomez Arias
long after he had ceased to hear them; but as he drew near Granada, and beheld its stately
edifices, ambition again dazzled his imagination, and he welcomed the bright images which rose
before his view to dispel the gloomy tendency of his present thoughts. The stately turrets
of the Alhambra enlarging upon his sight, awakened the most flattering ideas in his ardent
mind. Proud of the regard with which he was honored by his gracious sovereign, and truly estimating
the high connexion he was about to form, he naturally anticipated the most brilliant and honorable
career. The last lingering suggestion of remorse, which told him of the cruelty and ingratitude
by which he had paved the way to his advancement, now grew less powerful, and conscience, that
terrible monitor of the human heart, hushed her enfeebled voice, bribed by the rich prize offered
for future silence.

Don Lope secretly applauded the dexterity with which he had extricated himself from all his
dilemmas, and rejoiced at having parted with Roque, who now could only be considered as a witness
of his crime. By handing him over to the custody of the Moors, he was safely rid of a troublesome
servant, whose frowardness in future he must have tolerated as the reward of secrecy. Besides,
there was a further probability that the loquacious disposition and impertinent sallies of
the valet, would ultimately draw upon him the ill-humour of some sullen Moor, who, not inclined
to relish his jests, might pay with a few inches of a poniard the freedom of his tongue. With
regard to Theodora, Don Lope could entertain no fear of her escape, being under the guardianship
of one who appeared to be a captive to her charms. Meantime his wedding with Leonor would be
celebrated, all his views accomplished, and then if a decree of wayward fate interfered with
his flourishing honors, he would already have power to set aside the past, and to make his
way clear for the future.

In this pleasing anticipation, Gomez Arias arrived at Granada, and awaited impatiently for
the auspicious morning that was to terminate his fears, and crown his fondest desires. Early
in the morning, therefore, he flew to the mansion of the Aguilars without changing his dress,
and bearing in his appearance all the hurry and derangement of a hasty journey. He found Don
Alonso in the apartment of Leonor; but the welcome he received from the object of his attachment
was certainly not given with the warmth of an affianced bride; nor did the countenance of Aguilar
betoken any very friendly reception. Don Lope felt this coldness, but he perceived the urgency
of sustaining his equality of character, whatever might be the nature of the peril with which
he was threatened. Affecting, therefore, not to notice the unsocial cast of their meeting,
in a gay and lively tone addressed himself to Leonor--

"My dear Leonor," he said, "in my impatience to greet you, I may appear guilty of a little
indecorum," looking upon his dress; "but you will, perhaps, on that plea pardon my presenting
myself before you in a manner so irregular."

"Oh, Don Lope," answered Leonor with a sarcastic smile, "I can forgive you any thing, for my
nature has become of late so indulgent, that I find I could pardon offences much graver than
a mere breach of manners."

"Your goodness I never doubted," replied Gomez Arias; "but methinks you look rather uneasy;
surely you are not indisposed?--the noble Don Alonso too! Nay, has any thing occurred during
my short absence to cause your disquietude?"

"Certainly," returned Leonor coldly, "nothing has happened that ought to cause disquietude.
But, surely, Don Lope," she added sarcastically, "your sudden departure, and the summons of
our mutual friend Count de Ureña, might have held us in some little anxiety. Moreover, other
small circumstances have contributed to cause a transient uneasiness."

"But you must not," interposed Don Lope, "suffer yourselves to be discomposed on account of
our friend Ureña, for I am happy to say he was considerably better when I left him."

"Then," cried Aguilar, "it is as I suspected."

And rising from his seat with an expression of dark displeasure, without further ceremony he
quitted the apartment. Gomez Arias was struck at such strange behaviour; but soon recovering
his surprise,--

"What means this, Leonor?" he said in an angry tone: "Why am I treated thus?"

"Don Lope," returned Leonor, "surely the malady of your friend has somewhat affected your understanding.
We can have no right to interfere with the actions of my father, particularly as I have already
told you some accidents have occurred lately to ruffle his temper."

"And what accidents are those, in the name of heaven?"

"Are you really, then, so ignorant of the events which have taken place since you were imperiously
summoned to attend your friend?"

"Perfectly ignorant," replied Don Lope.

Leonor looked steadily in his face, and making a sign of impatience which she was unable to
restrain, proceeded--

"It is surprising that the Count has not informed you."

"Of what?" interrupted Gomez Arias, astonished. "In the name of heaven, explain yourself, Leonor."

"Now, do you not think," continued she, in an affected banter, "it was highly ridiculous in
a man of so grave a deportment as the Count to play such boyish tricks? Can you really believe
that, shortly after your departure, a message came from him, to announce his intention of surprising
you by his attendance at your wedding."

"Certainly," replied Gomez Arias with visible marks of emotion, "the Count's conduct is strange;
what his intention has been I really cannot conceive: but at all events, it ought in no manner
to entail on me your noble father's displeasure."

"Why, Don Lope," said Leonor significantly, "you are not such a novice in knowledge of the
world, as to expect that a man's displeasure should be strictly confined to the object by which
it has been caused. Besides, Don Alonzo has other reasons: our fair guest, who was so sacredly
beholden to him, is gone."

"What fair guest?" demanded Gomez Arias, with feigned curiosity.

"Did you never hear me speak of her?"

"If I did, I really do not remember."

"And what is become of Roque?" abruptly demanded Leonor: "he did not attend you upon your departure
yesterday, and search has been made after him without effect. Is he ill?"

"Why, to say the truth, his health is rather precarious," answered Don Lope, "and he has so
repeatedly been entreating me to allow him to retire to Toledo, where I believe he has a brother
or sister, that I was at length obliged to consent to his wishes; which, in sooth, I did the
more willingly, as he was growing of late so careless and impertinent, that his attendance
became more troublesome than serviceable to me."

"Why, Don Lope," returned Leonor, "you must have been strangely surprised that he should wish
to quit your service precisely on the eve of your wedding day. Moreover, you will be still
more amazed when I inform you that it was this identical Roque that eloped with our guest Theodora
de Monteblanco."

"Impossible!" exclaimed Don Lope, affecting to be thunderstruck.

"Repollo, our old gardener," continued Leonor, "saw them leave the palace, and instigated by
a feeling of curiosity, followed them at a distance, as well as the speed of their pace would
permit. He saw them at length halt at the public walks, where another person awaited with horses.
But this is the most extraordinary part of the tale, for the gardener said that the person
who was so complaisantly attending upon the fugitives, appeared so exactly to resemble you,
Don Lope, that he would swear to the identity, were he not certain that you set out in the
morning for the seat of Count de Ureña."

Great as was at all times Don Lope's presence of mind, and prepared as he seemed for all contingencies,
this last intelligence somewhat deranged his composure; a circumstance which did not escape
the keen and scrutinizing eyes of Leonor.

"The insolent rascal," cried Gomez Arias after a pause: "It was for this then that he appeared
so anxious to quit my service; but I told you that his behaviour had become of late most impertinent,
and even arrogant. The reason is now plainly discovered. But after all, your fair guest, as
you are pleased to call the lady-love of this unseemly knight, is most to blame. What, in the
name of Lucifer, could possess a woman of noble family to elope with a base menial? Was she
devoid of all shame?

"I suppose so," replied Leonor: then, in an expressive tone, she added, "But shame has been
completely set aside in all the turnings of this iniquitous affair."

She fixed a significant look on Gomez Arias, whilst the astounded cavalier, aware of the perilous
nature of his situation, merely assented to the truth of her observation. Leonor, eager to
pursue her clue in ascertaining how far Don Lope was implicated in the transaction, continued,--

"But is it not surprising, Don Lope, that this groom of Roque should in every respect so much
resemble you?"

"My dear Leonor," replied Gomez Arias, laughing loudly, and affecting good humour, "it is certainly
a sad misfortune to have so unprepossessing a likeness, but we must submit with a good grace
to that which is out of our power to remedy. But I dare say the rascally groom is not after
all so perfect a resemblance of your devoted admirer as the besotted gardener would make us
believe; how could the old dotard distinguish objects so well, at the distance he confesses,
and at night? It would seem more probable, by his prowling abroad at such an hour, that a free
potation of wine had so far acted upon his senses, that he saw the marvellous story he has
related, in a reverie whilst sleeping under the friendly shelter of a ditch."

"Nay, Sir," replied Leonor, "we have no reason to doubt the testimony of an honest and faithful
servant, who has no interest in the invention of a tale to deceive his benefactor."

"Well," returned Gomez Arias, "I will prolong the discussion no further than to express my
concern that you should bestow your affections on one who has the ill-fortune to resemble a
vulgar groom. But I hope this circumstance will not abate the tender regard with which you
have condescended to honour one who lives but in your smiles."

Here Gomez Arias attempted to pour forth the most ardent protestations of unalterable attachment;
but he was shortly interrupted by Leonor,--

"Nay, Don Lope," she cried, "spare yourself the trouble of uttering a single word more, either
to convince me of the sincerity of your love, or in extenuation of your conduct, for I can
very well imagine before-hand what you would say."

"That is no miracle," replied Gomez Arias, "your discernment is not too hardly taxed to perceive
the emotion which I scarcely wish to conceal, and must of necessity easily imagine the expressions
that such feelings must dictate. But pardon, if in a day like the present, my passion oversteps
the bounds of common love; for the delirium of bliss that possesses me cannot be manifested
by the usual demonstrations of cold-hearted mortals. A day that unites me to the most exalted,
as well as the most lovely, of her sex, is surely--"

"Hold, Don Lope," gravely interrupted Leonor; "I will not now dwell upon the respective merits
of your passion--for I have a favor to ask, and it is your time to grant a request which, perchance,
may sound strangely to your ear."

"I need not say that the wishes of my charming Leonor can meet with no opposition from me,"
politely answered Gomez Arias.

"Yesterday," continued Leonor, "notwithstanding the fervour of your love, you requested that
the wedding should be deferred one day. Now, you cannot deny me a similar favor, and I have
particular reasons for desiring that it may be further postponed for a month."

"Heavens! what say you? A month! a whole month!"

"Yes, Sir," cried Leonor with emotion, "a month--a year, if circumstances require a further
delay--'tis alike indifferent to me."

Saying this she abruptly left the apartment, leaving Gomez Arias in indescribable consternation.

"I am ruined!" he cried after a pause: "the forced indifference which Leonor has imposed upon
herself during this interview, and the burst of feeling that marked her departure, leave me
no room to doubt that her suspicions are excited. But shall I tamely submit to this reverse
of fortune, after the many and cruel measures I have been impelled to adopt for the success
of my designs? No, by heaven! I will not."

He then remained sometime buried in a musing attitude, balancing in his mind the most prudent
course to pursue in so difficult a situation.

"Boldness and indifference," he said at length, "alone can insure safety. From Theodora and
Roque, I have nothing to apprehend. I will forthwith send instructions to Count de Ureña; nay,
I will partially open my heart to him, since his co-operation is now become indispensable to
the furtherance of my plans."

After this, Gomez Arias sought another interview with Leonor, and with a proud and offended
demeanor, informed her that he was perfectly willing to concede her request. Then, without
waiting for an answer, he abruptly left her presence. He next repaired to Aguilar, and bitterly
complained of the material change he had observed in him as well as in his daughter Leonor.

"If," he added, "you have reasons to impeach my integrity, speak aloud, Don Alonso, and give
me an opportunity of removing the foul slander. But if it is a caprice, or a late repentance
in her choice, that induces your daughter to adopt this strange behaviour, let her speak frankly--Gomez
Arias is above the thought of constraining a woman's inclinations--and she shall be at once
released from all engagements."

Don Alonso de Aguilar was struck with the generosity and manliness of Gomez Arias, and gave
credit to the apparent sincerity of his words. The noble mind of Don Alonso could not conceive
it possible that guilt should assume so perfect a resemblance of candour. The disappearance
of Theodora, and the events which had attended her departure, were certainly well calculated
to awake a suspicion that Gomez Arias was implicated in that affair; but as nothing positive
could be adduced to prove his participation, Aguilar did not feel inclined to proceed with
inconsiderate hastiness in an affair calculated materially to injure Gomez Arias in the estimation
of the world. Leonor was naturally more irritated than her father at the least shadow of duplicity
in the conduct of her lover. Thus she had requested the wedding to be deferred for a month,
during which interval a proper investigation might be made.

Gomez Arias did not lose time in calling all his abilities into requisition, for his case was
desperate, and it was necessary that the remedies should partake of the same character. He
continued his visits to the Aguilars, but not with the same confidence as heretofore; and as
he witnessed the high degree of esteem in which Don Antonio de Leyva was held, both by Don
Alonso and his daughter, he affected to look on Leonor with offended pride, while he bitterly
insinuated that it was a growing attachment for young de Leyva that had induced her to consider
with suspicion, and treat with coldness, the conduct of a sincere lover.

Leonor, however, continued in the same frame of mind, insensible alike to his expostulations
and bitter sarcasms. Deeply had her pride been offended, and deeply she had determined to resent
the affront; nor could her sagacity and penetration permit her incautiously to trust the soft
words and blandishments of a man whose notoriety in gallantry, she began to suspect, did not
originate in idle rumour.

Meanwhile the irritated Don Lope spared no efforts to place his own conduct in a favorable
light, and endeavoured to cast the imputation of caprice on that of the Aguilars. He complained
constantly in terms of acrimony of the ungrateful manner in which his affection had been requited,
and vowed vengeance against de Leyva, whom he accused of most criminal and ungentlemanly duplicity.

Contending feelings kept him in a continual turmoil, and he earnestly wished for an opportunity
that might divert both the court and himself from a subject of which he was so disagreeably
the hero.

Fortune again favoured his desires, by bringing about an event as terrible as it was altogether
unexpected.

CHAPTER II.

    The battle is their pastime; they go forth
    Gay in the morn as to the summer's sport:
    When evening comes, the glory of the morn,
    The youthful warrior, is a clod of clay.

                                Home.

The streets and squares of Granada were thronged with a bustling and confused crowd. Here groups
were assembled talking earnestly, and evincing all the signs of surprise and terror--there
others were running about as if the dreaded event was actually come to pass. A continual hum
was heard in every corner of the city; every tongue was eloquent in telling, and happy was
he who could obtain an attentive listener, where all were eager to assume the part of orators.
Indeed the cause of these demonstrations was important: several expresses had arrived, announcing
the insurrection of the Sierra Bermeja, with the additional calamity that the terrible El Feri
de Benastepar, whom they all supposed to have been slain, was not only safe and alive, but
with the means of renewing a desperate warfare, and actually possessed of a force sufficiently
strong to enable him to march upon Granada.

The town of Alhaurin, and several villages in the vicinity of the Sierra Bermeja were likewise
in arms, and the rebellion seemed rapidly to extend throughout the whole of the surrounding
country.

The rage of the Christians on receiving this intelligence was greatly increased by the insolent
carriage of their fellow-citizens of the Mahomedan creed. Indeed, they evinced, in the triumph
of their demeanor, the workings of smothered hatred, that only waited an opportunity to explode.
Granada itself would have become a scene of tumult and bloodshed, had not Count de Tendilla
speedily resorted to measures of precaution to insure public tranquillity. Various bands of
veteran soldiers patrolled the streets, where the confused murmur of discontent, or the whispering
group of sedition, was heard on all sides.

The queen was highly incensed at this fresh instance of the refractory and turbulent disposition
of her new subjects. Her former edicts were again proclaimed through the city, not only against
the aiders and abettors of the rebels, but even against such as should hold communion with
them, howsoever slight or incidental.

The indignation of Alonso de Aguilar was strongly depicted on his noble and manly features,
when in the presence of the assembled court he grasped the standard of the cross, and in a
tone of resolution and enthusiasm--

"By the holy sign on this banner," he cried, "and by all the honors of my house, I swear not
to return to Granada until this accursed rebellion is rooted out, and the promoters brought
to punishment. Ere this month be past, El Feri de Benastepar, or Don Alonso de Aguilar, shall
be numbered with the dead."

A shout of enthusiasm answered the noble sentiments of the warrior, whilst the queen issued
orders that the next day all disposable forces should depart for the Sierra Bermeja, under
the command of Aguilar, his son, Count de Ureña and Don Antonio de Leyva. The troops of Jaen
and all Castile were likewise ordered to hold themselves in readiness to march under the Alcayde
de los Donceles and Count de Cifuentes.

Gomez Arias seized with avidity the opportunity which fortune thus offered him to signalize
himself, and found stronger claims to the esteem and regard of his sovereign, on whose features
he had lately observed a degree of coldness which little accorded with her former cordiality.
He did not regret his being excluded from the number of chiefs under Aguilar, though his pride
might feel a temporary wound. For he considered that his reputation would not be materially
increased whilst acting in subordination to such a chief as Aguilar. His gigantic fame would
engross almost all the glory, and its splendour would naturally throw into shade the lesser
stars of his unequal rivals. He rejoiced, therefore, that his exertions were unfettered by
a superior, and his ardent and ambitious mind soon worked out a plan of operations against
a quarter of the revolted territory which had been neglected in the hasty dispositions already
made.

He now boldly sought the presence of the queen, and requested her authority to embody a division
to act under his command, a boon which his reputation as a soldier fully justified him in demanding.
Isabella, to whom Don Lope's courtly manners and gallant bearing had always been pleasing,
was happy to afford him an opportunity of distinguishing himself, and the cloud that obscured
her brow was soon dispelled by a gracious smile as she wished him success in his expedition.
Indeed, justice required that the request of Gomez Arias should not be denied, for while most
of the Spanish chiefs, his brothers in arms, were about to share the dangers and glory of so
honorable a war, it would have been utterly inconsistent that Don Lope, who ranked amongst
the foremost in courage, should remain in obscurity.

Gomez Arias immediately made his arrangements with the usual ardour of his character, stimulated
by ambition and the desire of forcing upon Leonor a conviction of his superior merits, by adding
to his fame without being indebted to the proud family of the Aguilars. He summoned to his
ranks all the friends over whom he possessed power, and the retainers of various noble families
with whom he was in alliance. But these being volunteers, whom their zeal or hatred to the
Moors had instigated to take up arms, could not be put in a state to depart from Granada with
the regular army of Don Alonso de Aguilar.

The troops of this noble veteran were prepared to march. Previously, however, to their departure
from the city, they piously bent their steps towards the cathedral, where divine service was
performed with great pomp, to propitiate heaven in favour of its servants. The archbishop delivered
an eloquent oration inculcating on the Christians their duty, and the glory of their enterprize;
pointing out fame and honour to the survivors--an eternal crown to those who should fall in
defence of their country and religion. The banners of the army were then blessed, and the various
divisions directed their march towards the gates of Elvira, by which they were to leave the city.

It was a clear and beautiful morning; no lowering cloud defaced the serene brilliancy of the
sky, and the sunbeams sporting on the polished helmets and glittering trappings of the army,
were reflected in a thousand curious rays.

The trumpets, clarions, and other martial instruments, poured their brazen voices in wild and
animating strains, while the shouts of the multitude, assembled to behold the departure of
the Christian soldiers, floated promiscuously along the air. The walls of the city were thronged
with spectators, whilst others, more active or more interested, followed the army down the
Vega. It was a scene at once splendid and interesting, to behold the army marching gallantly
to the field, followed by a multitude all unanimous in imploring the benedictions of heaven
on their brave countrymen.

Amongst the dense crowd that gazed upon that martial array, what passions were called forth--how
many latent affections kindled--and what sentiments of glory displayed! The magnificent pomp
and the spirit-stirring dignity of war, at the same time that it elevates the soul to deeds
of heroism, fails not to awaken in the breast a corresponding sentiment of awe.--Alas! while
the warrior, in all the enthusiasm of courage and self-devotion, marches with eager strides
to the paths of victory, perhaps of death, how many tender hearts swell high and beat fearfully
for the dangers which they themselves cannot perceive!

Amongst that overpowering multitude might be discerned the venerable father, a lingering spark
of noble fire still lurking in his dim eyes, and his withering frame receiving new energies
as he gazed on the military display. A sigh of regret escapes him, for the perilous and glorious
scenes in which his age forbids him to bear a part. His out-stretched palms are clasped in
fervent orisons to heaven, not for the safety of his child, but that his conduct in the field
may be worthy of a man and a Spaniard.

There was also the affectionate spouse contemplating the marching army in silent sorrow; her
eyes swimming in tears are intensely fixed on that numerous mass of warlike spirits, where
one, to her dearer than all the world, was speeding from her side. On one arm some innocent,
perhaps, lay in sweet slumber, whilst another urchin, with years enough to gaze with delight
upon the glorious scene, evinces his pleasure at the animating prospect, and with infantine
exultation looks upwards to his mother, wondering to see her bathed in sorrow, for to his unconscious
heart no cause is there for grief; and yet his tears flow because his mother weeps.

Farther, perhaps, more lonely, on some high turret, on some distant eminence, striving to hide
her sorrows from the eye of the world, is seen the trembling virgin, whose pure heart has received
the first impression of love, and whose charmed ear has listened with fondness to the soft
tale of promised bliss. Now, with restless and agitated glance, she surveys the numerous host
in the vain hope of distinguishing the dear object of all her tenderest affections, torn from
her arms to exchange her smile for scenes of bloodshed and desolation. Alas! how numerous and
various are the fears that agitate her gentle breast! She may never more see him: he may sleep
his last sleep on the field of horror; or he may return triumphant but false to his vows, with
a proud heart, to scorn the love of her who mourned for his absence.

But women, likewise, there might be seen more high-minded and more heroic in their thoughts
and feelings; some who, like Leonor de Aguilar, offered their tears at the shrine of glory
and patriotism, and who, while they trembled for the life of the object of their affections,
were still more anxious for his honor; some, whose passion received a spark of heavenly fire
that elevated them above their kind, and who gloried in the sight as they beheld their lovers
marching onwards to fame and victory.

Such scenes, such sensations, with others which as powerfully affect the heart, but which the
pen would vainly attempt to portray, are generally attendant on a departing army. Fear, perhaps,
holds its dominion in the breasts of the many and interesting beings who are left behind; but
hope steals gently forward, and gilds with its bright illusion the most fearful anticipations.

Meantime the soldier marches on gaily and reckless, and with a light heart he takes his farewell
of those whom he is, perhaps, doomed never more to behold; and the tears that accompany his
departure, tears of sympathy and affection, will soon, alas! be changed for the bitter drops
of grief and despair.

CHAPTER III.

    Mer. Ce sont là de mes moindres coups,
         De petits souflets ordinaires.

    Sos. Si j'étois aussi prompt que vous,
         Nous ferions de belles affaires.

                                Molière.

    No nos rompas la cabeza
    Hombre----Pero Ay Dios mio!
    Pored un freno a mi lengua;
    Y ojala que esta no fuese
    La menor de mis flaquezas.

                                Cruz.

"Valga me el cielo!" exclaimed Roque, "Oh Maria, oh Rufa! Oh Rufa, oh Maria! nearly a week
have I been with you, and yet I cannot, for the soul of me, believe what I see. There must
be witchcraft in this; to find the old crony of my late mother, que en paz descanse![43] to
find Maria Rufa, whom I had supposed dead, and her soul dwelling with the saints, amongst the
rebels--amongst the Moors I mean, and herself a Moor: well, nothing shall make me wonder for
the future."

Such were the words that our reader's friend Roque addressed to dame Aboukar, as they were
advancing toward the town of Alhaurin in a cavalcade, of which they made a part. The venerable
and sour spouse of the ex-master of the household, was rather nettled at the valet's impertinent
freedom: he had been during the way most assiduous in favouring her with the benefit of his
remarks, which he happened to convey with such an extraordinary licence of tongue, that the
dame's patience, which it is believed was not of the most enduring kind, at last became completely
exhausted. With much tartness and asperity, therefore, in a discordant voice, she exclaimed,
"Out upon thee, most saucy and ungracious varlet; curb that licence of tongue, and learn to
behave in a proper manner to thy elders and betters."

"Sweet dame," quoth the valet, "I do not by any means desire to dispute that first quality;
you are certainly my elder by some good thirty years; but at the same time, most matronly and
venerable Marien, I beg leave to differ in opinion on the second part of your assertion."

Then, as if afraid of being overheard, he muttered, in an under tone, "I am a good Christian
and ever was."

This observation did not escape Marien Rufa, who heaved a deep sigh, and cast on Roque a look
of mingled shame and resentment. She felt sorely the rebuke, but notwithstanding the valet's
impertinence, the friendship she had entertained for his mother induced her to consider him
with some degree of interest, and prevented her from discharging on him the whole weight of
her indignation.

"Roque, Roque," she observed with sourness of aspect, "methinks you ought not to be so enamoured
of the sound of your own voice, for that most unfortunate propensity to prating has brought
you to the present pass: remember that it was on account of your growing sententious, that
your master so unceremoniously dispensed with your services."

"Well," pertly cried Roque, "I suffer for having spoken truth, and I glory in what I have done.
By all the saints, since I reflect on the flagrant injustice of Don Lope's conduct, and am
become a martyr to my rectitude and compassion, I find that I am endowed with a degree of courage
and resolution of which I was far from imagining that I was possessed. And now," he added,
drawing near the dame, "now will you condescend to favour me with the particulars of your apostacy
from our holy religion. What, in the name of infatuation, could entice you to take a step so
detrimental to the interests of your soul? Virgen Santa! once no one was to be found more assiduous
at the ceremonies of our religion; you were in very troth the most devout beata[44] of the
whole parish, and now here's a change, in the name of Satanas! Oh, Maria Rufa, you have surely
been bewitched."

"Alas!" cried the crone, ludicrously rolling her eyes in attempting the pathetic, "you say
right, Roque; I was verily bewitched."

"Santa Barbara!" exclaimed Roque crossing himself, "and by whom were you bewitched?"

"By that most powerful tyrant."

"What tyrant?" demanded Roque, drawing closer, and casting a suspicious glance around. "What
tyrant, Rufa?"

"Guess, Roque, and spare my confusion."

"Spare my guessing," returned the valet, "and with respect to your confusion, I dare say it
will not overwhelm you. Now, tell me the name of the terrible tyrant."

"Love," replied Marien Rufa, affecting much disorder.

Roque forthwith burst into an immoderate fit of laughter that startled the cavalcade.

"Love! the Lord defend us!--how could such a guest enter so homely an habitation! Love! here's
a pretty object for Cupid to exercise his pranks upon. Now, I do verily believe there is witchcraft
in the tender passion. Miserere! Miserere! and who was the happy mortal attracted by your matured
charms?--whence came the man blessed with the good taste necessary to set a just value on your
miraculous attractions? That most beautiful elongated chin--that capacious mouth--those lack-lustre
eyes, and shrivelled complexion--that most polite and well-educated nose, which is continually
bowing to the neighbouring chin; in fine, those long shaggy tresses of hair, which, if we must
judge by their consistency, bespeak thee endowed with the strength of Sampson."

Scarcely had Roque made a stop in his harangue, in order to take breath, than Marien Rufa,
exasperated beyond bearing at the caricature he was drawing, with a wonderful alacrity lifted
her clenched hand, and dealt the facetious valet such a tremendous blow on the ear, that he
fell stunned from the donkey which he bestrode, and lighted on the ground with such violence
that the whole place rung with the noise.

"There," cried the hag, "there's a convincing proof that my hair has not imposed on your credulity
with regard to my strength."

Roque was completely reclaimed from his waggishness by the unexpected visitation of the Sampsonic
fist, and for some time utterly forgot the use of his tongue. The notice of the whole cavalcade
was attracted by the mishap of the luckless valet, and the energetic exclamation of dame Aboukar.
The Moors that served as escort were seized with a fit of wondering mirth, and even the renegade,
who was the chief of the party, spite of his habitual sternness, relaxed his rigid features
into something like a smile. The tenant of a litter that was carried in advance likewise stopped
to inquire into the reason of the commotion.

"Roque, what is the matter," demanded Theodora (for she was indeed that lady), when she perceived
the valet rising from the ground in the greatest confusion.

"Nothing, my lady:" answered Roque, wofully; "the Lord defend us, but we have in our party
a devil incarnate, under the semblance of a woman. Good heavens! here's such a concert ringing
in the side of my head--such a hissing and whizzing never did I hear. O, Maria Rufa!" he then
proceeded, in a humble tone, "what a flame you have imparted to my poor face! If it is a sample
of your amorous fires, I am amazed you are not actually reduced to cinders!"

"That will teach you," said Maria Rufa, pacified, "to put a proper restraint on your froward
tongue."

Roque for some time after kept a profound silence, for though he affected to treat the matter
with jocose indifference, yet he was in no manner satisfied with the mirth and merry sayings
which his adventure had occasioned. At length, however, his curiosity prevailed, and almost
forgetting his recent disgrace, he again in a friendly manner accosted the Amazon.

"Now, Rufa," he said, "I hope you entertain no rancour against me for what has passed?"

"By no means, good Roque," answered the hag grinning, "I am perfectly satisfied, and I hope
you are the same."

"Quite," returned the valet, "quite; so let us say no more about it, but rather tell me, if
no ways disagreeable, the origin, progress, and final results of your passion."

"Alas! Roque," replied the old sybil, "it was unfortunate in its results."

And she heaved a profound sigh, whilst Roque, in most sympathetic unison, uttered a dismal groan.

"Console yourself," he said, "with the reflection that your case is pretty general in this
sinful world. But what is the name of the amiable barbarian, the sweet monster, the bewitching,
yet cruel oppressor, that excited the tender sentiments of your virgin heart, and turned you
from the true faith."

"What! you are yet unacquainted with my husband?"

"Husband!" ejaculated Roque, "so there was a husband in the case! Oh, then I am not surprised."

"He treats me like a brute, as he is."

"Indeed! that is astonishing," cried Roque, "wonderfully astonishing, considering the means
you have in your power of enforcing proper behaviour on the unruly. And pray what is the name
of your brute?"

"You might have perceived it before: it is Aboukar."

"Aboukar!" exclaimed Roque; "Now, indeed, my wonder ceases--Aboukar! Oh the sweet creature!
with his pretty lobster eyes, and most awful and portentous proboscis, which seems for all
the world like a fine ripe tomato displayed on a copper platter."

But here Roque thought it prudent to make a retrograde motion, as he looked at the masculine
arm of the dame, and remembered the little relish she had evinced for his talent of drawing
portraits, and the manner in which she remunerated the artist.

"So Aboukar is your husband!"

"Alas! yes," answered the ancient, "we have been married now these five years."

"Valgame San Roque!" cried his namesake. "What a dull dog have I been!--five years married--certainly
I ought to have discovered that long ago by his treatment."

"Treatment!" re-echoed Marien Rufa, a little incensed, "What treatment?"

"Oh! I mean no harm," replied Roque, "conjugal treatment, that is all."

"Roque," resumed the crone, modulating her croaking voice to something like a human sound,
"Roque!" and she suddenly stopt, and looked the valet steadfastly in the face. "Well?" said
Roque, surprised at the pomposity of her manner.

"Roque, my child, are you a kind and compassionate soul--a thorough good Christian?"

"A very good Christian," responded Roque, "though a humble sinner. But methinks such a question
comes with ill grace from the mouth of a renegade."

"I will confide in thee, Roque," returned Marien Rufa, "I am an unfortunate woman, and alas!
might I hope that my repentance were not too late? Roque, thinkest thou that there is truly
a hell as terrible as it is depicted?"

"Worse, worse, a thousand times worse," replied Roque. "All the torments which you may have
suffered in the company of---- But do you allow me to abuse your husband safely?"

"As much as you please," answered the gentle spouse.

"Well," resumed Roque, "all the torments which that most abominable, ugly scarecrow of a rascally
unbeliever has made you endure, are nothing in comparison to the tortures you are doomed to
suffer when you are compelled to leave that miserable carcase, and that time you must be aware
cannot be far off. Then consider what a life you will lead in those dark regions, where, by
the bye, you will be eternally tormented with the sight and company of your ungracious consort."

"I am sensible of my errors, but if I have sought your confidence, it was with the view of
exciting your compassion, not your reproaches."

But Roque had insensibly got into a very oratorical mood, and, without heeding the hag's remonstrances,
proceeded:--

"Now, Rufa, consider for a moment, who but the devil could tempt a matron full half a century
old, without a sound tooth in her head, the head itself being unsound, to look kindly on the
most perfect sample of ugliness, and a ruffian Moor to boot: this is enough to make you despair
of salvation--But no, the blessed Virgin forbid! I think, and charitably hope, that by a vigorous
course of penance, and wholesome castigation, properly and soundly administered, by a frequent
use of discipline, constant fasts, devout prayer, donations to the poor, of whom I am one,
and the like pious exercises, I really think your sinful soul may be snatched from the perdition
to which it has been brought by that infernal Aboukar, your most confounded lord and master;
therefore--"

"Roque," interrupted ruefully Marien Rufa, "whether you are in right earnest or only playing
the fool with me, I cannot determine; but my situation is such as to deserve the pity of every
good Christian."

Roque had, indeed, a peculiar inclination to a ludicrous banter, even when dwelling on the
gravest subjects, which might put on his guard a person of quicker intellects than the dame
of Aboukar.

"Rufa," he said, "pardon me if, in my admonitions, I cannot impart to your troubled spirit
that unction which becomes the important subject that dictates them. Now, provided you will
tell me the manner in which you intend to proceed, perhaps I may be able to help you with my
good advice."

"Well, child," replied Marien Rufa, "I wish heartily to be reconciled to the church, and for
this purpose we must contrive to fly from these accursed Moors."

"Very well," replied Roque, "so, you are resolved to abandon your matrimonial misery?"

"Oh, yes, Roque," retorted Rufa, "my conversion is very sincere; I have so many motives to
quit the wretch. Oh, he is indeed a barbarian! Think, Roque, such a sweet partner as I have
been to him, and now to neglect me for a little Moorish hussey not worth a maravedi. Oh, the
faithless Aboukar--the wicked man! Yes, Roque, I wish as soon as possible to be reconciled
to the church."

Roque, though far from being a deep divine, could not but significantly shake his head, when
he perceived the motives that brought about the conversion of the apostate love-smitten dame.
However, the idea of flying from the Moors very much tickled his fancy, and he was determined
to adopt the step, provided it could be carried into effect without any great risk to his precious
person, and that his mistress Theodora should be a partner in the flight.

Thus he was indulging in the most agreeable reverie, when his fair penitent disturbed him by
uttering a most discordant sound, which the valet soon perceived to be a failure in the imitation
of a groan. The eyes of the hag exhibited terrible signs of displeasure, as she turned round
to some object that called her attention, while writhing her uncouth features into a most diabolical
grimace. She thundered out an oath which made Roque invoke Santa Maria; but he was not a little
scandalized when he discovered that the occasion of the hag's indignation was her frolicsome
husband, who, without the least regard to her presence, was carrying on, in the presence of
his wife, a little coquetry with a Moorish girl.

"There," cried the ill-treated spouse, "there is a traitor--how I could belabour the barbarian,
and pluck that vile creature's eyes out! Oh, Roque! I have been a sad sinner, and I fervently
desire to be reconciled to the church."

"Well, well," said Roque, "but first tell me on what foundation do you build hopes of an escape.
We are, that is my mistress and myself, so narrowly watched, that it will be no easy task to
evade the vigilance of our guards. It is true that by the interference of the renegade I am
allowed a free access to Theodora, and the lady herself is treated with much courtesy; but
at the same time I have observed that some cursed Moor or other is constantly watching our
motions. Moreover, good dame, I must undeceive you, should you have relied on my courage for
some desperate plan. I will not fight a single Moor. My humility will not permit me to exercise
a business for which I consider myself utterly unfit, both for want of practice and natural
inclination."

"No, child," replied the crone with a sneer, "I was never foolish enough to place any great
hopes on your bravery; but I trust we shall find means to forward our plans without such assistance.
To me," she then added, "all the secrets of the Moors are known, for they consider me too much
interested in their cause to doubt my fidelity. Don Alonso de Aguilar is rapidly advancing
against El Feri and should he succeed in his expedition against Sierra Bermeja, as it is more
than probable he will, Cañeri, Mohabed, and the other chiefs will not be able to withstand
the forces which are already sent against them. We must take advantage of the confusion to
escape, lest they should carry us with them to Africa."

"Cuerpo de Cristo!" cried Roque, "and is that all your wise head can devise? Well, I hope you
are not overpowered after such an effort of imagination; but really I cannot give you credit
for the contrivance."

They were now entering Alhaurin, where Cañeri had preceded them two or three days before, and
they halted at the entrance of a large mansion, which appeared, by the guards patrolling in
front, to be the abode of the chief. Meantime the renegade helped Theodora out of her conveyance,
and led her to the apartments allotted to her use. She was no longer a prey to the frenzied
passions that had so long stormed her breast. The keen intensity of affliction, insulted and
indignant pride, were now lost in the gloomy resignation and cold apathy to which they had
given place. The severe trials she had undergone had impaired the beauties of her person, and
poisoned her warm and generous feelings, but still Theodora was lovely and interesting. She
had lost the brilliant beauty of a girl blooming with youth and happiness, but she had acquired
the chaste graces and loveliness of sorrow. Alas! even in those sad memorials of fading beauty,
enough yet remained to make her an object of interest, and keep alive the passion which Cañeri
had conceived. The load of grief and despair which had weighed her down at the last proof of
her lover's treachery, was succeeded by a mood of deadened resignation. This calm, however,
appeared presageful of some dire intent, and accordingly, for the first two or three days,
she had not been left a moment alone, and every instrument of death had been carefully removed
from her reach. The attentive services of Roque partly reconciled her to her dreadful situation;
for it is consoling, even in the lowest depths of affliction, to meet with one sympathising
being, however humble his station, however weak and limited his means to afford comfort and
redress. In the midst of her barbarous enemies, she was permitted the attendance of a Christian,
and this circumstance, trifling as it was, imparted some solace to her oppressed spirit. Besides,
Cañeri had abstained from importuning her with his loathsome protestations of love. This forbearance
of the Moor arose from the renegade having stipulated, that in engaging the affections of Theodora,
he should resort to no violence in her present sorrowful condition.

Thus Cañeri had limited his addresses to a bare manifestation of respectful regard, foreign
indeed to his nature, and borrowed only from the necessity of acquiescing with the wishes of
the renegade, who had boldly declared he would oppose any violence employed against Theodora.
This favorable disposition of the renegade was a source of astonishment to the object of his
solicitude, for she could not forget that he had been the principal agent in the completion
of her misery. Did Bermudo intend by these seeming kind offices to secure the prey to himself?
or was it really a sentiment of pity that impelled him to the manifestation of this solicitude?
Could heavenly pity dwell in that darksome abode, where the most fiendish passions kept a constant
habitation? How were such opposite guests to be reconciled?

These surmises kept the mind of Theodora in a state of continual excitement, but as day after
day passed, and the renegade, instead of exhibiting the least mark of enamoured sentiments,
seemed to grow more respectful in his attention, those doubts began to wear away, and Theodora
concluded that some mystery enveloped his proceedings, which she was unable to unravel, and
which time alone could clear up.

In pursuance of the injunctions of El Feri, his brother chief, Cañeri, had established his
head quarters at Alhaurin, where his party was daily increasing by the Moors who came to join
his standard. Cañeri himself had arrived three days before, having left to the renegade the
charge of Theodora, who could not be supposed to travel with equal expedition.

Bermudo, therefore, with a few resolute Moors of his band, and the other personages of whom
mention has been made in the former part of this chapter, constituted the cavalcade that now
entered the busy and thronged streets of Alhaurin, where the ferment occasioned by fresh and
numerous arrivals, plainly manifested the rapid progress of the insurrection.

CHAPTER IV.

                  Some good I mean to do,
           Despight of my own nature.

                                Shakespeare.

    Ser. No hay quien socorra, quien valga
           A una muger infelice?

    Fel. Si, que decir muger basta,
           Quando infeliz no dixera.

                                Calderon.

The air of dignity and importance which Cañeri had resumed with his change of fortune, was
displayed to an extent that might render him extravagantly ridiculous in the judgment of any
sober individual. He already considered himself a sovereign firmly established on his throne,
and he took no precaution to disguise the impulses of his over-bearing vanity and despotic
character. Thus, while he was apparently serving the cause of independence, he afforded an
opportunity to his enemies of truly estimating the purity of his intentions.

Cañeri paid a visit to Theodora immediately upon her arrival; but, according to the agreement
with the renegade, he limited his attentions to the mere phrases of gallantry and courtly good
nature. This ostentatious shew of civility, however, did not arise from a generous disposition,
but merely constrained necessity. The renegade was continually present to his thoughts, and
though his superior in command he was forced involuntarily to yield that tribute of respect,
which resolution and courage are sure to exact from the feeble, however humble the situation
in which their possessor may be placed. Besides this, though his passion for the fair Christian
had not abated, his heart was now too much engrossed with objects highly gratifying to his
vanity and pride, to suffer the charms of a captive to rule there with undisputed and despotic
sway. His visits, therefore, were short, and he soon left Theodora to the undisturbed possession
of her own thoughts. She no longer exhibited those signs of exquisite anguish or passionate
delirium. Keen and protracted suffering had rendered her in some measure callous to the stings
of sorrow. Musing melancholy and listlessness as to her fate disputed alternately the possession
of that heart, once so fruitful in every tender feeling, in all the genuine virtues of female
loveliness and merit. But, alas! the situation of the unhappy Theodora was, indeed, more distressing
than heretofore. Hope now no longer illumined her heart; amidst the darkness which had over-clouded
her imagination, no cheering light shone upon her path to lead her from misery. But the dereliction
of hope is not the worst enemy of virtuous woman. No, it is the loss of salutary fear, and
Theodora was nearly sinking into that lamentable state of indifference which generally succeeds
the extinction of youthful hope and affection. Every thing seemed to conspire against Theodora.
The secluded and retired nature of her education, and the tenderness of her age deprived her
of those auxiliaries to combat her present state, which a woman of greater knowledge of the
world, and more advanced in years, would gather from these very circumstances.

Roque had, by order of Cañeri, a free access to Theodora, and he took special care frequently
to profit by the permission granted. This was some solace for the unfortunate girl; the interviews
with the valet diverted her thoughts by the lively, though ludicrous, pictures which he drew
of their future release from their present thraldom. The very night of their arrival at Alhaurin,
Roque was giving to his mistress a circumstantial account of his conversation with Marien Rufa,
when the door of the apartment swung open, and the renegade boldly entered without any previous
announcement. His sudden appearance caused the greatest perturbation and alarm, both to Roque
and his mistress. The unseasonable hour of the visit, and the interest evinced by the renegade
towards Theodora, were naturally indicative of some sinister intention. Theodora, however,
recovering from her first surprise, involuntarily drew back as Bermudo advanced. Meanwhile
Roque was at a loss what to think or to do; the flutter of his whole person plainly indicated
how ill at ease he was with himself. He looked at his mistress, and perceiving her emotion,
felt more afraid, though on what account he was perfectly unconscious. But Roque was not long
suffered to remain in uncertainty with respect to his own feelings. Bermudo, with a most haughty
demeanor, made a sign to the valet to quit the place, and as Roque deliberated between regard
for his mistress and dread for his own dear self, the renegade, to bring about a final determination,
laid his hand on his weapon, an argument which completely set at rest the valet's doubts, and
convinced him of the necessity of a speedy retreat.

Theodora perceiving how easily Bermudo had succeeded in convincing Roque, and knowing the obsequious
manner in which the valet acted when such sort of conviction was forced upon him, deeply felt
the danger of her situation, if abandoned by the only being who might interest himself in her fate.

"Oh! Roque, do not leave me," she pathetically exclaimed; "stay--I cannot remain alone with
this dark, this terrible man."

Roque cast a melancholy look on his mistress; her piteous appeal went to his heart, but a terrible
glance from the renegade seemed to make still stronger impression, for he quickly resumed his
retrograde motion.

"He must be gone," said Bermudo resolutely, waving his hand in a most expressive manner, which
considerably tended to expedite the valet's exit.

He retired, therefore, and Theodora no sooner found herself deprived of this last frail protection,
than with an assumption of fierce dignity:--

"Renegade!" she cried, "what means this intrusion? Were then all thy former marks of regard
but the insidious means to cover the real intentions of a miscreant heart? Away!--begone!--I
will alarm the place,--yes, I will call on the protection of Cañeri himself, for odious as
he is to my eyes, I can never look upon him with the same degree of abhorrence and contempt
as I do on a renegade to his faith, a traitor to his country, and the vile minister to a despot's
pleasures."

Bermudo heard these bold and severe rebukes without attempting an interruption. Calm and unmoved
he suffered the first ebullition of resentment to evaporate, and for some time deigned to make
no other reply than a bitter smile of disdain.

At length he broke that dismal pause, and in a slow and deep toned voice:--

"Woman," he said, "thy taunts I will not resent, for partly they are just, and the rest I excuse
in consideration of thy forlorn state, and the many sufferings thou hast undergone."

"Oh!" cried Theodora, with a sad smile, "It well becomes you to condole for misfortunes to
which you have so largely contributed;--approach me not--begone--I cannot trust a traitor;
there is guile and malice in the very proffer of thy kindness;--hence,--or----"

"Hush, lady," interposed the renegade, with indignant pride, "you surely mistake my character.
Threats and fears are strangers to this heart. Nay, when it is in some weak moments attuned
to virtue, a threat, a solitary threat would banish hence the heavenly inspiration, and the
fiend again triumph in its natural dwelling. Therefore, lady, threat me not, for the man is
inaccessible to fear, who, like myself, is a beggar in happiness. Rest, lady, rest, and do
not by an imprudent act, neglect the opportunity which fortune affords you of escaping the
fate with which you are threatened."

There was an air of sullen yet dignified composure on the renegade, as he delivered these words,
and Theodora, in spite of her apprehension, was for some time rivetted to the spot, waiting
the disclosures of the fearful man.

"I do not pretend," he proceeded, "to command your implicit confidence; I only counsel you
to rely on your own judgment and discretion. My character you have drawn in colours dark and
glowing, but, perhaps, too true. Yet I must correct an erroneous impression under which you
labour; 'tis true I am an apostate--a traitor--and if in the catalogue of accursed crimes,
there is a name still more horrid and abhorred, I claim it; but to be subservient to the pleasure
of a despot--no, no, you must know me better. No," he added with warmth, "my deeds have been
dark, but not dastardly or contemptible; I have drunk deep the cup of crime--yes, I have quaffed
it with avidity, but my palate has always been nice enough to scorn the dregs. Had any other
than a woman dared to give utterance to the base thought, ere this he would have added one
more to the list of those who have fallen by this arm. You are a woman, and a woman in distress;
the only consideration that could have restrained my indignation for such an insult."

"What then wouldst thou with me?" demanded Theodora, somewhat reassured by his words and manner.

"To befriend you, not to harm you, for I war not with women; the solitary being that showed
the feelings of humanity towards Bermudo belonged to womankind, and the recollection of her
virtues and her love for me, would secure her whole sex from the effects of my wrath."

Theodora was struck with this asseveration. She could not reconcile these symptoms of feeling
with his previous acts, and his acknowledged character for crime.

"Theodora," resumed the renegade, and his austerity of tone and manner seemed momentarily to
acquire a tint of softness uncongenial with his habitual nature; "Theodora, I am a man of guilt;
yea, one who plays his part in this detested world without a feeling of remorse--but I cannot
harm a woman--and you less than any other of your sex. She, like you, was innocent and beautiful--like
you, unfortunate--like you," he added, with agitation, "like you, the victim of Gomez Arias."

"Heavens!" exclaimed Theodora, "what mystery is this? Oh, speak! I am already but too low sunk
in misery, and yet I fain would learn the full measure of the crimes of him who has undone me."

"It would be a difficult," replied the renegade, "an endless task, to satisfy your desire;
but you may, perhaps, from your own experience, draw a just inference of his conduct to others.
Beauty, innocence, and youth, and unlimited affection, could not save you from his barbarous
acts; the rule has been the same for those who like you had charms to captivate his attention,
and an unsuspicious, a genuine heart to inhale the poison of his persuasive tongue. But still
the fate of poor Anselma surpassed in horror her many rivals in misfortune."

"He loved her once," said Theodora despondingly, "and then forsook her, like me."

"He loved her," darkly returned Bermudo, "with the affection of one, who centres his whole
bliss only in the enjoyment of his selfish and degenerate passion. But she spurned him; stratagem
and force prevailed. Madness--despair--must I say it? death ensued. Enough--the circumstances
of the horrid tale 'tis needless to relate: I have said thus much to convince you of the impossibility
of my harming a woman whose fate bears so strong a resemblance to that of my own unfortunate
Anselma. Dispel then your apprehensions, and look upon me now not as a foe, but as your sole
friend and protector."

Theodora gazed on the renegade with mute amazement; the professions of her lover, and his base
desertion, had taught her mistrust: her heart was no longer ready to believe any pleasing tale,
to welcome every protestation of regard. It was by trusting too implicitly to her feelings
that her ruin had been accomplished, and even in her present abandonment she considered those
feelings as premeditating another treason. Yet, when she beheld the composure of the renegade,
when she recalled to mind that not even a word had escaped him that could be distrusted, she
was persuaded to listen to his proposals, if not totally to abide their results. The renegade
perceived the state of her mind, and hastened to hush the whispers of suspicion.

"Think you," said he with firmness, "think you that I deceive you?--abandon such a thought;
for learn that should I be tempted to harm you, the only object of my life would be blasted;
trust then my interest, if you cannot trust my honor. I came to render you a service, which
must be reciprocal. Nay, start not; you may well marvel what affinity there can be between
an unfortunate and helpless female, and an outcast like myself; yet this seeming anomaly exists--we
are drawn together by the most powerful ties that can bind one fellow-creature to another:
for we are linked by those of misfortune, and misfortune wrought by the same individual."

"And yet," cried Theodora, "despite of your enmity to the barbarous, unfeeling man, you strenuously
seconded his plans; had you not aided him, I should not have been here."

"Perhaps not," replied the renegade, preserving an unalterable composure; "but where would
you have been? Have you reflected well on your helpless situation, and the character of the
foul betrayer. Ah! call to your memory the last scene of his desertion, and judge by his behaviour
then, of what he might have been capable, in order to remove from his path the unfortunate
obstacle that impeded his ambitious and criminal career."

"The monster was capable of all!" exclaimed Theodora, with dreadful agitation; for the recital
of her lover's perfidy rudely awoke all the dormant feelings of the heart.

"I have saved you from his infernal machinations;" said the renegade. "My conduct to you then
appeared barbarous, but my subsequent behaviour must have effaced from your mind those unfavorable
impressions. If not, the time is come for you to learn, and me to disclose, the motives by
which all my words and actions have been directed. Theodora," he then added, in a firm but
soothing tone, "my proceedings have been to you mysterious; the mystery here ends--I have procured
liberty, home, happiness for you--revenge for myself."

"Heavens!" exclaimed Theodora, "explain, what mean you?"

"I mean the truth. Be cautious and confident, and not many days shall pass ere you flee from
the company of men whom you abhor, and I despise. Ere long you shall return to your deserted
home, and enjoy the consolation which a father can confer--a happiness which they say is great.--I
never knew it."

"Can this be real?" exclaimed Theodora, with a scream of surprise and joy. "Oh, Alagraf, are
you then so generous?" and unable to restrain the swelling emotion of her grateful heart, she
fell at his feet.

"Rise, lady, rise," vehemently cried the renegade, "that posture ill becomes you. I cannot
sustain the sight. Poor, helpless, innocent sufferer," he then said in a pathetic tone, which
in spite of his sternness, he could not suppress. "Poor, poor, forlorn girl--it was thus she
begged and supplicated, but he denied her." He suddenly recollected himself, and with an abrupt
motion he raised the weeping Theodora from the ground.

"Rise; for by all the powers of darkness, to see you thus more fiercely burns my brain, and
my frenzied madness becomes more ungovernable. Woman, I am not generous, I am only just, though
some cold mortals might denominate my justice selfish cruelty. But I care not for man or his
opinions."

He paused for a moment, and then proceeded in a calmer tone:--

"Theodora, you are now acquainted with my intentions. I only grieve they cannot be put in execution
with the promptitude that I desire.--But I must go hence immediately--I must keep up the hellish
character which I have assumed, and I am sent to act in conjunction with El Feri; my absence
shall be as short as I can make it, and in the mean time fear not any violence from Cañeri.
In that quarter you are secure; for the petty despot knows that his death would be the consequence
of such a step. And now, lady, keep strict silence on my important disclosures. Roque is faithfully
devoted to your service, but much is to be apprehended from his imprudent loquacity, should
he be made acquainted with the secret before the time of action. He and any other you wish
to point out shall be our attendants. Remember my injunctions. Be comforted, but do not exhibit
symptoms of sudden and extraordinary joy, lest you awaken the suspicions of Cañeri; for he
is possessed of all the cunning and mistrust which generally fall to the share of a coward
heart blended with a despotic mind. Till we meet--adieu! I call for no blessing on your head,--for
I can only curse."

He said, and suddenly withdrew.

Theodora for some time was scarcely able to collect her thoughts; the renegade had again revived
her drooping spirits, and she ventured to hope once more. She resolved implicitly to follow
his instructions, in the anxious expectation of a speedy deliverance from her present miserable
and perilous condition.

CHAPTER V.

    Un farouche silence, enfant de la fureur,
    A ces bruyants éclats succède avec horreur.
    D'un bras déterminé, d'un oeil brulant de rage,
    Parmi ses ennemis chacun s'ouvre un passage.

                                La Henriade.

    Now yield thee, or by him who made
    The world! thy heart-blood dyes my blade.--
    Thy threats, thy mercy I despise,
    Let recreant yield, who fears to die.--

                                Sir Walter Scott.

The shadows of evening were falling round when Alonso de Aguilar and his gallant army arrived
at the plain that skirts the mountain of the Sierra Bermeja. The rebels, with El Feri de Benastepar
at their head, who had already been worsted in the plain, had resolved not to hazard another
battle, but to keep possession of the mountains, confident of the advantages of their position.
El Feri, therefore, having secured all the heights and passes of the Sierra, beheld with inward
satisfaction the approach of the enemy; indeed, his situation could not be improved; nature
had fashioned an impregnable fortress in the whole circumference of that huge mountain; large
masses of rock frowned at intervals around the summit and extended down the sides, and the
hollows were filled up with large clumps of trees, the growth of ages. There was only one path
by which an ascent appeared practicable, narrow, steep and tortuous, and this perilous pass
from the nature of its position might be defended by a handful of brave men; numerous small
ravines were likewise observable, by which a laborious and difficult ascent might be attempted,
although they were almost choaked with different impediments, being the beds of the torrents
which at times poured their headlong course down the sides of the mountain.

The Christians beheld with dread the formidable array which the Sierra presented. The Moors
from the adjacent country had flocked to the standard of El Feri, confiding in the prosperous
turn which their enterprise was likely to take; they manifested both their hopes and defiance
by a prolonged succession of shouts and barbaric yells, which, in lengthened and fearful clamour,
were reverberated through the rocky passes and solitary caverns of those mountains.

Alonso de Aguilar was struck with the advantages which the rebels derived from their position,
and the attempt to ascend the mountain, crowned as it was with desperate men, might be considered
more a deed of madness than an act of true courage; but again he thought of the evil which
procrastinated measures often produce in a war of this nature--the longer he delayed the attack
the greater the number of enemies he should have to encounter, and if the spark of revolt were
not immediately extinguished, the whole province would soon blaze out in open rebellion. Most
alarming symptoms of the refractory spirit of the inhabitants had already been manifested during
the progress of the army from Granada, and Aguilar well knew that the difficulties he had now
to surmount, would increase tenfold each day that he suffered to pass without risking a battle.

Thus, although aware of the desperate character of his undertaking, he nevertheless resolved
to engage the Moors in defiance of their superior advantages, relying with the most unlimited
confidence on the enthusiastic valour of his veteran troops, whose hatred to the Moors was
proverbial, and whose bravery and military conduct he had tried on many a well-fought field.

Under this impression, Don Alonso had summoned Count Ureña, and other principal chiefs, to
communicate to them his determination.

"Perhaps you will think," he said, "that the resolution I have formed is desperate, but there
is no middle course to choose; we must either return inglorious to our homes, or attack the
rebels in their strong hold. An assault must be immediately attempted. Our soldiers burn with
impatience to meet those rebellious and ungrateful Moors. It is on the confidence of their
love to their country, and hatred to their foes, that I found my expectations. However, we
will wait until night has closed; darkness will be more favorable to us in the passive warfare
which for some time we shall be obliged to carry on. The shafts of our enemies cannot thus
be aimed with such fatal certainty. And now, my brave companions, to your posts, and I hope
that when next we meet it will be amidst the shouts of victory."

Aguilar divided his army into three parts, the right wing of which he entrusted to the command
of Count de Ureña, the left to Don de Antonio Leyva, whilst he, with his gallant son Don Pedro,
determined to lead on the centre to the charge by the more direct ascent, where the chief force
of the Moors was judiciously placed.

These three bodies were again sub-divided, as a large mass would afford a conspicuous object
against which the efforts of the enemy might be more successfully directed. Thus the different
commanders having received their instructions, and the signal being given, various columns
advanced towards the mountains from their several points of attack, whilst the war-cry, Santiago
y Cierra España, was echoed from one to another with inspiring courage and animated enthusiasm.
The Moors answered the challenge with wild acclamations, looking on the advancing foe as a
devoted prey on which they were shortly to glut their long-desired vengeance. The Christians
were, therefore, suffered to proceed unmolested in their course lest, by a premature disclosure
of the resources of their enemies, they might be induced to retreat, and thus prevent the Moors
from obtaining a complete victory. Slowly, then, the Christians began to ascend the rugged
and difficult paths of the mountain. The deafening shouts had for some time ceased, and were
succeeded by a dismal and deadly silence. The Christians, therefore, continued to ascend in
noiseless progression, until El Feri de Benastepar, judging that the enemy was sufficiently
drawn into his toils to ensure success for the artful manoeuvres which he had planned, now
gave the signal of command, and again the whole mountain rung with an overpowering tumult of
cries and yells.

Suddenly the rocks above seemed to be alive, broken into numberless fragments. With dreadful
and overwhelming violence their huge disjointed masses rolled from their elevated summits,
and gathering a new impetus in their headlong course, rushed down the sides of the mountain,
and bounding from point to point with an appalling crash, heaped destruction on the advancing
enemy. The ominous and redoubled cries from the summit of the Sierra, rose above the terrific
sound of the deadly fragments, and were sufficient to strike dismay into the most daring. Astonishment
for a moment paralyzed the Spaniards; yet their intrepidity did not quail in the hazardous
moment, though they perceived a heap of mangled corpses swept before them with fearful rapidity.
Aguilar could not behold unmoved the destruction wrought amongst his brave followers; and fearing
that a second discharge of those terrible missiles might succeed in disheartening them, in
a voice of enthusiasm----

"Forward, my brave comrades!" he cried: "those rebels will find that they will sooner tire
of hurling rocks than we shall of withstanding them. By suffering we will triumph. On, brave
companions, on!"

Aguilar succeeded by his example in instilling into the hearts of his men a degree of maddened
courage, which alone could carry them through the obstacles that impeded their course. They
accordingly continued fearlessly to advance.

Night had now closed in the most dense and impenetrable darkness. The moon seemed unsuccessfully
struggling through a pile of massy clouds, and the scanty light afforded by the dim stars was
insufficient to illumine any distant object. Thus the Christians had no means of warding off
the dreadful fate which threatened them. They heard, without the power of resistance, the low
rumbling sound of the huge rocks that were loosened from their beds, and the crash that followed
their ponderous course, as they tore down every object which came before them, mingling all
in one vast and promiscuous ruin.

The voice of Aguilar and other chiefs, in hoarse tones, was heard at intervals encouraging
and animating their troops, who, wrought up to madness by their loss, had now no other feeling
than an ardent desire of attaining the summit, where their enemies lay in security, and quenching
their rage in their detested blood. Indeed, the terrors of this dismal and appalling conflict,
instead of damping the courage of the soldiers, served only to brace them with redoubled force.
Dauntless, therefore, they continued to ascend, unmindful of the cries and groans that rent
the air, and although they were sensible that a similar fate might the next moment await themselves.
On they proceeded, in the full confidence that some amongst them would ultimately reach the
summit, and take ample vengeance for the death of those whom they left behind. Nor did the
Moors consider this stubborn constancy and self-devotion without amazement and dread; but El
Feri, who read their thoughts, immediately took measures to prevent the consequences with which
they might be attended, if he allowed his men to indulge their fears; aware that the best means
of keeping up the mettle and ardour of his men was to employ them actively, he ordered a considerable
portion of them to descend and meet the enemy boldly in the path. This order was joyfully obeyed,
and the Moors rushed impetuously to the attack. Aguilar, who hailed this movement of the enemy
as favorable to his troops, by affording them an opportunity of profiting by their superiority,
now rushed forward to encounter the charge with increased energy, whilst Don Pedro, with a
chosen party, led the van.

The young warrior continued gaining ground; the Moors retreated; and the Spaniards considering
this movement as the forerunner of success, boldly pushed on, reckless of the thousand shafts
which assailed them on every side. Fresh men supplied, according to instruction, the place
of the Moors who retreated; and the wearied Christians had nothing to carry them through the
unequal contest but the undaunted courage which had supported them in so many battles. Still
they advanced, although the enemy, in spite of the numbers that fell, preserved a fresh and
unbroken front, disputing every inch of ground apparently with undiminished numbers.

In the midst of his gallant achievements Don Pedro fell from the blow of a stone, which disabled
him from proceeding. His absence soon became apparent; but Alonso de Aguilar pressing forwards
to the front, by a desperate effort soon compelled the rebels to abandon their defence, and
retreat precipitately to their stations. The Spaniards here halted for a few moments and rallied
their forces, on which dismal inroads had been made by the late conflict. Again they advanced
in silence and without impediment. Their gallant leader, however, looked on this change with
the most gloomy apprehensions; for he conjectured that the Moors were about to renew that system
of defence which had been so destructive at the first onset. His suspicions were well grounded.
Incontinently another ominous shout rent the air, and the tremendous fragments again rolled
down, spreading devastation wherever they passed.

And now, to render the unequal strife more terrific, there fell some broad and scattered drops
of rain, announcing the storm which had been gathering in the dark bosom of the swollen and
shapeless clouds. Hollow gusts of wind swept through the passes of the mountains, mingling
their gloomy cadences with the loud cries of the Moors and the wild lamentations of their victims.
And now the pregnant clouds discharged their contents, which poured like an impetuous cataract
down the channels of the mountain, whilst from those dark and impenetrable masses fitfully
glimmered the livid streaks of lightning, followed by the hollow muttering of the distant thunder.
This approaching conflict of the elements Don Alonso beheld undismayed. Boldly he urged on
his men, whilst the power of the storm increasing apace, presented additional obstacles to
their progress. Nearer the tempest advanced, and the flickering sudden gleams of lightning
were succeeded by closely repeated sheets of sulphurous and liquid fire, which in serpentine
corruscations illumined those scenes of carnage and devastation, while loud and prolonged peals
sounded like the ominous voice of the spirit of destruction riding on the storm, and exulting
over the scene of death. But the Spaniards, though moved by the sight of their companions falling
around, could not be subdued by the gloomy prospect before them, for it is the attribute of
noble courage, while it sympathises with the brave, to continue in the path of honor and duty
undaunted and undismayed.

Flash now followed upon flash, and by their livid and unearthly reflection appeared the gallant
leader and his band, more resolute in proportion to the fury of the warring elements. The caves
and wild recesses echoed with the hollow moaning of the blast, mingled with the shouts of the
combatants. Chilling was the scene; more chilling still when the pause made by the raging storm
was filled up with the more terrific noise of the falling rocks and stones which came thundering
down. Aghast the Christians beheld, by the vivid flashes, the descending destruction; now a
block rolled along dyed in the blood of their gallant companions, and again some uncouth and
unfashioned fragment had gathered in its career a broken limb, a nerveless arm, or a bleeding
leg. The channels were now filled with the water that rushed down the sides of the mountain,
forming gurgling eddies around the crushed bodies of the fallen, and mingling their blood with
the turbid waters in their descent below.

Such an accumulation of misfortunes began to dishearten the Christians, whose forces were reduced
to half their number. Don Pedro, Count de Ureña, and other principal chiefs were wounded, others
dead; and an horrific shout on the left, commanded by Don Antonio de Leyva, announced some
dreadful catastrophe in that direction.

The renegade, with a valiant reinforcement, had by a dexterous manoeuvre cut off the retreat
of the Christians in that quarter; and, though they had fought with the most desperate courage,
they were completely routed, and the greater number slaughtered on the spot. Savagely Bermudo
dealt his blows on his own countrymen, and vented his diabolical feelings on many brave and
innocent men to take vengeance for the wrongs he had sustained from one. But few men escaped
from this promiscuous carnage, and those few cut their way with frenzied courage through the
ranks of the enemy, bearing the bleeding body of their chief, Don Antonio de Leyva.

The rage of the storm had by this time abated, and Alonso de Aguilar, auguring favorably of
men who had withstood, undaunted, such an accumulation of terrors, had pushed forward, and
was now midway on the mountain. The rebels beheld his progress with conscious alarm, for though
his numbers were considerably reduced and weakened by fatigue, yet Don Alonso was about to
reach a space of even ground, in which should he succeed, it would render more doubtful the
victory which they had till now considered as certain. Still they continued to roll down their
destructive missiles, but these had lost their former power; for though some visited the enemy,
yet the greater part stopt in their career, impeded by the trunks of trees torn up by the tempest,
or stuck in the spots of marshy ground caused by the descending torrents. The Moors, therefore,
abandoned this system of aggression, and perceiving that the gallant band of Don Alonso de
Aguilar was extremely small, and that it could not receive assistance from the Spanish forces
below, they collected a great body, and determined to oppose the further progress of Aguilar,
before he could succeed in reaching the little plain. A desperate contest ensued, in which
every Christian exerted his remaining strength, and their present position was so far favorable,
that the Moors were not able to overwhelm them with numbers. Thus Aguilar, encouraging his
men with the better aspect of their fortune, continued fighting desperately, and gaining ground,
whilst the affrighted Moors retreated before his amazing efforts.

But the most exalted courage cannot support the body under the accumulated sufferings of wounds
and exhaustion, and Don Alonso at length beheld with a look of melancholy resignation, blended
with manly fortitude, the diminution of his numbers, and the state of depression under which
they laboured. He could no longer hope to accomplish his daring enterprise, nor effect an honorable
retreat. The day, which had now shed its first glimmering light, revealed the forlorn condition
of his men: he beheld his once gallant army stretched along the path, which was so completely
covered with the dead, that it seemed to be paved with human victims. The Spaniards fought
still, but their foes were continually supplied with fresh men, and Aguilar foresaw with a
pang of distress that the Moors would ultimately triumph. In this emergency he cast a desponding
look on his troops below, who would in vain have attempted to assist him, on account of the
distance which separated them.

The followers of Don Alonso were now reduced to a very limited number, but he perceived on
their countenances the noble expression of resigned courage and high-minded patriotism. A sad
smile of satisfaction was on his lip, as with a firm voice, he exclaimed:--

"Christians, this standard must be planted on the highest point we can attain." Then after
a pause he added, pointing to the little plain; "Behold your grave!---- advance boldly--there
is the last stage of our existence--and if any one returns to Granada, he may tell the queen
that Alonso de Aguilar has redeemed his pledge."

These words were electric--the countenances of his companions brightened, and they seemed to
acquire new vigour from the example of their noble leader. They dealt their blows with increased
energy, and after a terrific struggle, they at length reached the fatal plain. There they halted
at the goal of their glorious career, and Alonso de Aguilar planting the standard of the cross
firmly on the ground, placed himself near a rock which he caused to be surrounded by his men.
There the devoted warriors resolved to await their fate.

The Moors now rushed on them from all parts with a ferocious joy. But many were those who fell
before they could succeed in mastering the brave and infuriated Christians. Man to man they
fought, and round the rock the gallant soldiers gradually fell. The heroism of the Spaniards
might protract, but could not avert their fall. Aguilar at length beheld himself alone amongst
a heap of his fallen men; his armour was broken in many places, and stained with the life-blood
which flowed through the crevices; with his left hand he grasped the remains of a banner, and
supported himself against the rock, while his right still continued to wield his ponderous
sword. The numerous assailants looked with dread and awe on the redoubtable champion, and for
some time seemed to be rivetted to the place. But a host was gathering around to rush at once
upon the formidable foe, when a giant figure made his way through the crowd, crying aloud--

"Yield thee, Christian, for the Moors know how to respect courage like thine."

"Yield! Never will I yield to a rebel. I am Alonso de Aguilar."

"Thanks to the prophet!" cried the Moor; "look then on thy irreconcileable foe!--I am El Feri
de Benastepar."

Aguilar saw the Moor-chief with the fortitude of a noble heart, and rising superior to his
adverse fortune, although covered with wounds, and fainting from exhaustion, he sprung forward
to meet the advance of his terrible adversary, whilst the Moors awed by the meeting of such
warriors, stood around in breathless silence.

The mighty foes closed in desperate combat. But soon Aguilar conscious of his weakness, retired
to his original position against the rock, and in that posture sustained the attack. The fresh
and unabated force of El Feri became too powerful for the Christian chief, worn out as he was
with the loss of blood, and the fatigue of many hours of battle. Aguilar now perceived that
to die nobly was the only alternative he could embrace, and accordingly grasping firmly the
banner, he continued a resolute but unequal combat. His exhaustion, however, increased, and
as he perceived his end approach, he sprang forward, and with one desperate blow, in which
he collected his remaining energies, endeavoured to crush his enemy. But the exertion far exceeded
his strength, and the same blow that an hour before would have cloven through buckler and hauberk,
now fell almost harmless upon the shield of El Feri. The Moor availed himself of the moment,
and before Aguilar had time to recover, the scymitar of his foe had cleft through the helmet
of Don Alonso, and sunk deep into the brain. The hero fell; with one deep sigh his noble spirit
parted from its clay, and the brave, the generous, the heroic Don Alonso de Aguilar was no
more![45]

A tremendous shout from the exulting Moors announced the catastrophe to the Christians below:
it sounded through the mountain like the ferocious yell of demons revelling over their victim.
El Feri stood silent for a moment gazing on his prostrate enemy, and he could not but contemplate
with veneration and awe that form which even in death preserved the nobleness and dignity which
had distinguished it through life. His helmet had given way, and rolled to some distance on
the plain. His black hair silvered with age, and now dripping with his blood, overshaded part
of his noble countenance. Shorn of its proud device, his broken shield lay on his left arm,
as well as the remains of the banner which he had sworn to defend with his life, whilst his
right arm still retained that sword once the terror of the Moors, now lying harmless on the
ground. Thus fell Aguilar, and the exulting Moors flocked round his corpse, led by an instinctive
curiosity to behold the prostrate warrior so long the object of their dread.

CHAPTER VI.

    Inter their bodies as becomes their births:

                                Shakespeare.

    Few, few shall part where many meet,

    * * * *

    And every turf beneath their feet
    Shall be a soldier's sepulchre.

                                T. Campbell.

The victory of the Moors was complete; and as they had been long accustomed to reverses, so
unusual a success elated them beyond all bounds of moderation. They considered their independence
as now firmly established, and could scarcely be restrained from rushing, like a disorderly
horde of conquering barbarians, on their enemies below, and ravaging the country round. But
fortunately El Feri joined to great courage and activity the rare endowments of a prudent and
sagacious chief. He foresaw that the present success, if not followed up judiciously, would
prove more prejudicial than favorable to their cause. It was not by a confused depredatory
system that this first victory should be followed up; for their cause could only be ultimately
benefited by improving their present advantages. Besides, the fierce courage of his followers,
arising rather from a sense of injuries and revenge, than real military bravery, was ill calculated
to sustain the superior numbers and better disciplined bands of the Christians. Nor could El
Feri be so far dazzled by one solitary success as to attribute solely to their conduct and
courage that result which was chiefly to be ascribed to the advantages of their position, combined
with a series of fortunate circumstances that had assisted them against the Christians. He
knew that the intelligence of this victory would excite those of his countrymen who were as
yet lukewarm in the cause, to take up arms and repair to that mountain which was now the cradle
in which their infant liberty was to be rocked. He wished to preserve and improve this situation
without risking the danger of another action, until he possessed ample means of insuring success.
A precipitate movement now might involve the Moors in difficulties capable not only of retarding
their triumph, but even of rendering fruitless the effects of a first victory: Gomez Arias
was likewise marching with a powerful army, and it would be madness to abandon the strong hold
of the Sierra for the sake of hazarding an encounter, when as yet they were in all respects
inferior to their enemies.

El Feri, therefore, strongly deprecated the design formed by Mohabed of advancing at present
against the Spaniards. But Mohabed, flushed with pride and little conversant with military
affairs, could only be prevailed upon to defer his sally from the mountain for two days; and
El Feri, considering the baneful effects which any disagreement amongst the chief leaders might
produce, prudently acquiesced in his decision. He hoped that in the meantime he should have
an opportunity either of dissuading his brother chief, or at least of organising a more systematic
and powerful invasion.

Whilst the best warrior in the Moorish ranks was deeply interested in forwarding their views,
his disorderly and savage followers were affording proofs of their wanton cruelty and insubordination.
El Feri saw with disgust and sorrow, that the men he led to the field adhered not to the principles
which they pretended to profess. He perceived that his army more resembled a horde of undisciplined
barbarians than true and sincere patriots; that the gratification of private animosity and
revenge had a far greater preponderance in directing their exertions, than the heroic impulses
of noble enthusiasm and public spirit. He had been himself stimulated to take up arms solely
by pure and patriotic sentiments, without the least alloy of personal interest, or the indulgence
of a revengeful disposition. He, therefore, bitterly lamented, for the sake of his country,
when a secret voice whispered to him, that he was less the leader of independent men, panting
for liberty, than of a lawless discontented rabble, better deserving the name of rebels than
that of liberators. Alas! how often is the lustre of a good cause darkened by the private interests
and vices of its agents!

The attention of El Feri was however diverted towards a tumult in that part of the mountain
where the mighty Aguilar had fallen: he hurried to the spot to inquire into the cause of the
commotion, when he saw the noble form of his redoubtable foe ignominiously placed on an eminence,
round which men, women, and children were crowding, to glut their eyes with the bleeding spectacle.
While their savage disposition was gladdened with the sight, they heaped maledictions on the
dead. This dastardly ebullition of revenge was more particularly displayed by the weaker portion
of men, and by the refuse of women. Women, fashioned by nature to indulge every kindly feeling,
and tender sentiment of compassion for the fallen--women, when they have overstepped the barriers
of their natural delicacy, become more lawless and cruel than the most hardened of men. An
old hag was, with wanton mockery, striving to close the eyes of the warrior; another was trampling
under her foot the cross which she had wrenched from his breast; and a dirty urchin was rending
his venerable locks, whilst some miscreants, not satisfied with these profanations, in base
revenge plunged their weapons into the lifeless clay. But still there were some whom the great
Aguilar inspired with terrors even in death, and they shrunk from the inanimate corpse, as
if it were ready to start into life, and wreak vengeance for the outrages sustained. Flushed
with indignation at the sight, El Feri soon dispersed the vile and motley crowd.

"Base, pitiful wretches," he cried in anger, "it well becomes your cowardly nature thus to
insult in death, the man you dared not look on in life. Aye, quench your valour on that unconscious
body, for those weapons are unworthy of warring against the living, which cannot respect the
dead. Avaunt, miscreants! tempt no further my just anger."

The affrighted crew shrunk back in confusion, but one more daring than the rest ventured to
exclaim--

"He was the mortal foe of the Moors, and of El Feri de Benastepar----"

"In life he was," sternly replied El Feri; "but death reconciles the bitterest enemy--for enmity
must lose its fire in the cold precincts of the grave."

"The Moor and the Christian," retorted gruffly the other, "even in death, must be irreconcileable;
even in the frost of the sepulchre, the hate of such foes must not be extinguished.

"Cease, miscreant!" fiercely returned El Feri, "or by the mighty Allah, a single word more,
and a blow from the scymitar of El Feri shall be thy only answer."

In speechless terror they all retreated, when El Feri turning to one of his followers--

"Do you, Moraz," said he, "and some of your brave companions, pay the last honors to the noble
Don Alonso de Aguilar."

The Moors obeyed the orders of their chief, and forthwith a grave was dug at the foot of the
rock. No funeral pomp--no military honors graced the obsequies of the great Aguilar--no chaunting
priest was there to rehearse the service of the dead--no friend to weep over his loss--no grateful
dependant to raise the closed hands in prayer to heaven; but in silence his enemies laid him
in his humble grave, and strewed the earth over his warlike form. What, though no sculptured
marble was there to point out the noble dust that lay beneath; the name of the warrior will
live in the hearts of his countrymen, and will be handed to posterity as long as the records
of Spain shall exist. But, in the absence of the pomp which marks the burial of the illustrious,
Don Alonso received the most honorable tribute that can adorn a warrior's grave--the manly
and venerating tear of his mortal foe; for, as the earth covered for ever the remains of Aguilar,
the silent tear of noble feeling fell on it from the eye of El Feri de Benastepar.

Meantime the Christians at the foot of the mountain were making a precipitate retreat, carrying
with them a number of their wounded companions, and leaving behind a terrible monument of their
bravery and misfortune.

How imposing is the calm, when the warm activity of action gives place to the desolate repose
of death! Now, the din of strife is over; no longer the brazen notes of the trumpet swell in
the wind--no longer the echoes of the mountain rehearse and fling back the warlike sounds.
Hushed is the voice of command and animation--mute the cries of victory or defeat. Even the
howling blast, which lately, with its fitful voice, increased the terrors of the scene, is
now softened into a low and mournful murmur, emblematical of the dismal tranquillity that reigns
around. The smiling face of nature is bloted and defaced by the truculent works of men. The
rich and reviving green that carpeted the ground, now presents to the view an ensanguined plain,
and the smiling flowers, emblems of innocence and peace, bear no longer in their calice the
pearly moisture of the morn, but display the crimson evidence of man's hatred to his kind.
The soft grass is not now ruffled by the welcome pressure of living individuals, happy in the
joyous dance, or gently reclining under the sweet influence of slumber, but by the weight of
ghastly corpses.

It was a sight fearful to behold! not a sound was heard; an unnatural sadness prevailed over
the scene; a thousand warriors lay there in the silence of the grave, but in those colourless
features still lingered a tinge of the last feeling by which they were animated--the last passion
that raged within; the brow stiffened into gloomy fierceness--the eye intensely fixed with
bold resolve--the firmly clenched hand--bespoke the various sensations in which they were surprised
by death. Tranquil and extended lay some who had received the summons without a throb; surely
the blow was struck, and swiftly fled the spark of life, whilst others, in the violent contraction
of the muscles, and the writhing expression of pain, indicated how fearfully the rebellious
soul had grappled with the destroyer, before she could be dislodged from her tenement. Death
levels all distinction, and here were seen men of various ages and ranks, so widely separated
in life, promiscuously mingled in the last repose. Youth and age alike indifferently strewed
the plain, and the silvered locks lay beside the flowing tresses; the pale hue of protracted
life, with the rosy healthful tints of commencing and hopeful existence. Spring had mixed its
blossoms with the falling leaves of autumn. No distinction of rank was here; by the noble chief
lay the humble soldier--their attire alone could distinguish one from the other; and even this
external ornament would soon be destroyed, and all, all would be amalgamated in one general
indiscriminate dust.

But still that period was not arrived, and the encampment of corpses, fresh in death, appeared
most like an army of sleeping warriors; but for the bloody tokens and fearful disorder which
drove away every image of natural repose, it seemed as if their departed spirits still hovered
within the bodies which they had lately abandoned. But alas! too soon the harbinger of fading
and helpless mortality would speed to dispel the melancholy charm. The carrion birds were now
hurrying to claim the undisputed inheritance of that prey which a short time since had been
the receptacle of so many feelings and affections, while a thousand hearts were doomed to weep
for the occasion that afforded joy to the gloomy and filthy revellers.

The routed Christians, meantime, were fast retreating, whilst the news of their defeat and
the fate of Aguilar spreading swiftly around, soon reached the stately city of Granada, for
misfortune is a most expeditious traveller. The heroic Isabella felt an indescribable shock
at these unwelcome tidings; even victory, if purchased with the death of Don Alonso, she would
consider a reverse, but attended, as it was, with complete overthrow, it created the most lively
sensations of indignation and sorrow. She made a solemn vow in the presence of the archbishop
her confessor, and her nobles, that she would neither wear linen nor sleep on her royal couch
until that daring rebellion had been annihilated, and its agitators brought to retribution.
She next gave orders that all her troops should march against the rebels, and a numerous army
was soon collected, both of veterans and volunteers.

Meantime the grief of Leonor for the death of her father was exhibited in a striking manner,
but still in a manner worthy a branch of that noble tree. She found a generous consolation
in the name bequeathed to her by her departed parent, and she fondly cherished the halo of
glory that surrounded her father's life, and now must adhere for ever to his memory. The queen,
anxious to contribute to the mitigation of her sorrow, had kindly invited her to the palace,
that by a temporary absence from her own dwelling she might be relieved from the sight of objects,
which continually brought to her mind a train of painful associations.

CHAPTER VII.

    Padre mio, caro padre,
    E tu ancor m'abbandoni!

                                Guarini.

           I know not how to tell thee;
    Shame rises in my face and interrupts
    The story of my tongue.

                                Otway.

Bermudo, the renegade, having received instructions from El Feri soon after the affair of the
Sierra Bermeja, returned to Alhaurin, where he found Cañeri in an extacy of uncontrollable
joy. His late extravagance had of course been considerably augmented by the news of the recent
success. So elated were his spirits, and so confident did he feel of the happy results which
would attend all the future operations of the Moors, that, forgetting a secret dislike he always
entertained to actual strife, he talked of heading a body, and meeting the Christians, who
were rapidly advancing upon Alhaurin: but the renegade brought different injunctions from El
Feri, who was now looked upon, by common consent, as the supreme arbitrator of the Moorish
cause. Cañeri was ordered, unfortunately for the display of his present ebullition of valour,
to fortify himself in Alhaurin, and prepare a retreat for Mohabed, in case the rash expedition
of that chief against Gomez Arias should prove unsuccessful.

All El Feri's persuasions had been thrown away upon Mohabed, who, quite inexperienced in war,
and highly flushed by their recent victory, had descended the Sierra Bermeja with a strong
division to offer battle to the Spaniards. Cañeri submissively followed the orders of his brother
in command. Indeed in his present exhilaration of spirits, he would submit almost to any thing,
except to renounce the outward show of dignity, for Cañeri was one of those good-natured soldiers,
who can be satisfied with the shadow, whilst other leaders possessed the substance of power.

In every age and country, there needs must be warriors of all descriptions; some are designed
by nature to encounter perils, and acquire a name to be enrolled in the temple of immortality,
and there are others whose noble achievements entitle them to the same honor, though traced
in different characters; there is also a third class of military men, who, being neither sanguinary
nor heroic, are yet intended to shine in a more peaceful warfare,--generals of undoubted military
capacity, of extraordinary genius for the enactment of regulations and orders, with a clear
judgment for the various qualifications of staff officers, and bearing an exceedingly martial
and appropriate carriage in courts, reviews, and parades. Now, to this last class Cañeri most
assuredly belonged: his talents for military parade and shew no one could dispute. He now approached
the renegade, and in as affable a manner as his arrogant dictatorial manner would permit:--

"Alagraf," he said, "these are joyful times for the Moors."

"Provided they last," coldly returned the renegade.

"Last," rejoined the Moor, with indignant surprise. "Behold!" and he pointed to his men, all
arrayed and equipped in a martial style, as they were standing in review, "those men are not
likely to tarnish the laurels already culled by their companions of the Sierra Bermeja. But
you are ever sullen, Alagraf; no victory, no fortune can efface the gloom which pervades every
action of your life."

"Yours, at all events, Cañeri," replied the renegade, sneeringly, "is excessively gay; the
love of your country must certainly be great, since it can occasion such extraordinary marks
of satisfaction for a temporary success."

"My country and religion are dear to me," returned Cañeri, with dignity, "very dear, and sacred.
But then," he added, relaxing, "my heart is not wholly absorbed in the love of my country."

"That I believe," replied Bermudo, significantly. "It will easily admit of division, and in
the distribution of your lore, I dare swear you have reserved a considerable share for yourself."

Cañeri laughed affectedly, then drawing nearer to the renegade, and taking him gently by the hand--

"My friend," he said, "much as I love myself, still have I a store left for such as love me
well, and when a lady fair----"

"Eh!" exclaimed the renegade, "what lady fair is this?"

"Oh, Alagraf," returned Cañeri, unable any longer to contain himself, "I am the happiest of
men--Theodora--the beautiful Theodora has at length yielded to the soft persuasions of love,
and it is to you, my good Alagraf, that I stand chiefly indebted for such favorable results."

The renegade started back in visible consternation. Cañeri's words sent daggers to his heart.
Could it be possible? the amiable and elevated Theodora, sunk to the base minion of so worthless
a character! and all his plans overturned for ever! It appeared unaccountable--impossible.
Theodora could not look kindly upon the object of her late mortal abhorrence.--Such a transition
was abrupt--unnatural--unless, indeed, her reason had fallen a sacrifice to her accumulated
distress.

Terrible thoughts coursed over the troubled and darkened brow of the renegade, whilst his whole
person manifested strong marks of the passion that agitated his bosom.

"Alagraf, what means this emotion? why, you appear thunderstruck."

"Yes;" replied the renegade, assuming his composure, "with surprise. But you said it was to
my good offices you stood indebted for your success. Now would you favour me with the particulars
of such an extraordinary conquest?"--

"Aye, my friend," returned vauntingly Cañeri; "Fortune is very capricious. She never works
progressively, but by starts, and then according to the mood she is in, a man is either overpowered
with misery or with bliss. Some time since both the affairs of my country and those of my heart
went on desperately; the scales are now turned, and I am blessed in a double triumph.

"But," cried the renegade, "the nature of your triumph I would fain learn."

"It is complete," replied Cañeri with complacency.

"Complete!" re-echoed the renegade with emotion--"complete! how?"

"At least by anticipation," returned the Moor. "Complete by anticipation. Nothing is yet concluded."

The renegade recovered from the suspense of agony.

"The triumph of which I speak," continued Cañeri, "is yet to come, though it is already beyond
a doubt. Theodora, until now so resolutely bent against me--Theodora, who at the very sight
of me shrunk back with horror and abhorrence--Theodora at last receives me not only without
reluctance, but even with kindness. My visits no longer create disgust and dread, and every
symptom foretels a speedy and grateful termination to my fondest hopes." He then added with
conceited vanity,--"And I marvel how else an affair of this nature could terminate? Theodora
was a lovely woman, a woman in affliction; but she was a woman still, and could not be expected
to continue eternally in the same mind. Constancy in any thing is against the very nature of
woman; perseverance is a foe she could never successfully withstand."

To this sapient observation the renegade made no reply. A glance of scorn was the only sign
by which he evinced his value of the chiefs opinion. He allowed him a free range to his hopes,
and when the vain Moor had satisfied himself with aerial happiness, the renegade in a bitter
bantering tone wished him joy of his conquest, and hurried away to certify upon what basis
were founded the expectations of the Moor.

Cañeri retired to his couch, when to his waking dreams succeeded those of night, which though
not wilder in their nature, were still by their flattering prospects the source of unspeakable
satisfaction. He rose, therefore, the next morning if possible in greater exhilaration of spirits
than before, and immediately sent for his confidant the renegade; but his confidant came not,
and Cañeri was in absolute necessity of a person to whom he might communicate his hopes and
his plans. Malique was accordingly ordered into his presence.

"Malique, where is Alagraf?" inquired the chief.

"Alagraf!" exclaimed the astonished Malique; and he remained for some time as if struck by
a thunderbolt.

"Alagraf!"

"Alagraf! yes Alagraf," repeated impatiently Cañeri. "What means this confusion? speak. Where
is the renegade?"

"The renegade is gone," answered the trembling Malique.

"Gone!" echoed Cañeri with superadded agitation.--"Gone! where? when? to what purpose?--gone!
without my knowledge!"

"The purport of his mission," replied Malique, "I know not; nor was I made acquainted with
his departure until this morning. The guards of the night allowed him to pass. Possessed as
Alagraf was of your secrets and unbounded confidence, it was naturally supposed that he acted
under your instructions: his egress from the town therefore caused neither surprise nor alarm."

"My instructions!" cried fiercely the chief; "I gave him no instructions; it is an act of insubordination.
That man was ever too proud; his accursed Christian blood still remained in his veins, when
his mouth pronounced a recantation of his creed. He renounced his country; but could not renounce
his character. By the mighty Allah! he shall severely suffer for this breach of discipline
if Cañeri has power amongst the Moors. Yes, he shall feel the bitter consequences of his imprudence
upon his return."

"Return!" cried Malique, despondingly, "If he acted not according to your orders, I much apprehend
he will never return; for his companions in flight leave no doubt as to the motives that have
directed him."

"Companions!" exclaimed Cañeri, in breathless anxiety. "What companions?"

"Even the fair captive, and the menial Roque," replied Malique, after some hesitation.

"What! Theodora gone! gone with the renegade!--hell! furies!--unsay those words, Malique! tremble
for the villains that allowed him to leave the town--nay, tremble for your own life!"

The fury of Cañeri knew no bounds, upon the confirmation of Malique's intelligence. He stamped
and raved like a madman, and plucked his beard in very ire: then, in the summary way of distributing
Moorish justice, he caused the chief and two or three of the guards of the night to be slaughtered
in his presence. Indeed, Malique himself would have shared the same fate, had not the private
interest of the Moor superseded his frenzied revenge. But Cañeri considered Malique as totally
devoted to his person, and he was loath to part with a man of whose aid and counsel he stood
in greater need than ever. Thus the life of Malique was spared by the despot, as those of many
other humble slaves had before been and will again, by their despotic masters, not for the
services which they have already rendered, but in consideration of those which they might still
afford.

"Malique, quick," cried Cañeri, "take the best of my troops, the fleetest of my horses, and
speed after that accursed renegade; bring him, dead or alive;--alive, if possible; and ask
for any recompence, any, how great soever, which I can grant.--Begone!--fly!"

In a moment the faithful Malique with a chosen band was mounted, and in a moment they started
rapidly with the velocity that a hope of recompence or a dread of punishment inspires. They
sped in the direction reported to be taken by the fugitives, but it was too late; the renegade
had devised the necessary precautions to insure success in his undertaking. He had the advantage
of a whole night's journey, and had besides prudently changed his route as soon as he found
himself out of sight.

Thus the efforts of Malique proved as abortive as the ravings of his master. After a day spent
in fruitless pursuit, the party was compelled to retreat before an advancing band of Christians,
and returned to Alhaurin, to witness the extravagant rage of Cañeri, who was alternately the
prey of shame, disappointment, and vexation. Indeed, all the Moors evinced signs of discontent
at the disappearance of the renegade. Some, because his presence animated their courage, and
others because they dreaded the despotic temper of Cañeri, now rendered doubly formidable by
this untoward event. All the Moors were, therefore, in dismay at the flight of the renegade,
all but one, and that was Aboukar, who found with no less surprise than joy, that amongst the
companions of the runaway was included his spouse, Marien Rufa.

Meantime, the fugitives were rapidly approaching the town of Guadix, the native place of Theodora.
But with what throbbing hearts the travellers proceeded on their journey, and how different
were the feelings that gave expression to their features! A thousand sensations agitated the
bosom of Theodora; fear, hope, and filial love, alternately disputed the mastery, whilst the
countenance of the renegade evinced nought but a dreary isolation of feeling; revenge alone
reigned in his heart uncontrolled, and undisputed. The two inferior personages were likewise
indulging in reflections consonant to their nature and habits. A vacant joy, a happy riddance
from a state of fear and thraldom, predominated in the heart of Roque, whilst a curious amalgamation
of gratified spite and returning superstition claimed that of Marien Rufa. But, however different
the sentiments by which they were actuated, the travellers evinced an equal joy when their
anxious look caught the first glimpse of Guadix, which now stood before them softly enveloped
in the twilight shadows.

"Welcome! dear lady," cried Roque, joyfully, "once more behold your home."

Home, delightful thrilling word! It went to the heart of Theodora in a tumultuous flow of pleasing,
yet painful sensations. She now returned to the scenes of her innocence and happiness, but
it was also the theatre of her disgrace and sorrow. What agitation did she feel as every well
known object presented itself with powerful associations to her mind. Already she descried
the stately appearance of her father's mansion, rising majestically in the shades of approaching
night. Though distant she clearly perceived every object, every feature of the surrounding scene.

Tranquil and quiet the country and the city lay in religious silence, and the gentle hum of
humanity that softly stole upon the ear, and the tinkling of a bell, or the social bark of
a dog, every well-known sound struck with a congeniality of feeling on the trembling heart
of Theodora. She returned to her home like the happy traveller after a lapse of many years,
to whose memory charged with numberless objects that have intervened since his departure, these
infant scenes must return in a confused, fading, yet pleasing sensation of delight. Theodora
came; she drew near the place of her birth with anxiety and dread. Around she beheld every
object as she had left it. Nature had proceeded undisturbed in her accustomed rotation. Green
were the fields, and the boundless heavens still displayed their majestic grandeur. Yet, all
around, to the eyes of Theodora, bore a tint of strangeness she could not well define. Alas!
the change was not in those places, but in the tone of mind with which she considered them.
Guadix and its gardens, and its groves, and its fountains, were still the same, but Theodora
was changed. She had left those happy scenes in all the glory of youth and beauty. She returned
experienced in grief in the beginning of life, and bearing in those heavenly features the iron
stamp of premature decay. She had left them in the wild delirium of love,--in the intoxicating
bliss of a first all-powerful affection, lavishly bestowed, and abundantly requited. She returned
with a heart desolate and forlorn, the pure springs of which were envenomed by the baneful
effects of passion, and embittered with shame and grief. She had left them in the happy society
of a fond lover, full of present joy and glowing hopes of future happiness. She returned full
of disappointment and remorse, under the protection of an apostate, the dark enemy of her country.
These sad images obtruded upon her mind, and to such dismal thoughts was superadded the load
of fear and anxiety arising from the uncertainty of her offended parent's reception. She was
his only child, tenderly loved and cherished; but yet, would not this very love offer obstacles
to a reconciliation? Would not her father's unbounded kindness serve to set off in blacker
colours her own cruel ingratitude?

With these gloomy ideas she at length reached the threshold of the paternal dwelling. There
was a melancholy calm that smote her heart--the ponderous casements were closed--a dismal silence
prevailed, and as they entered the Zaguan, the echo of their steps was sent back in a mournful
sound that seemed to rebuke the intruders. The old favorite dog of Don Manuel lay in a corner
dozing a dull slumber, and Theodora, as she fondly called him by his name, received no sign
of pleased recognition. The animal slowly raised his head, and mechanically fixed his heavy
eyes on the speaker, but he neither leaped briskly to hail an old friend, nor resented the
approach of an unwelcome stranger. The servants, too, were long in making their appearance,
and when at last Pedro, the old major-domo, advanced to meet the party, he bore on his countenance
deep lines of affliction: for some time he gazed vacantly on the strangers, and then in a harsh,
inhospitable tone, inquired their business.

"Pedro!" said Theodora, with faultering emotion; "Pedro, don't you know me?"

At the sound of that voice Pedro started, and made the sign of the cross--he gazed in astonishment,
applied his hand to his dim eyes, and then in a sort of wild stupor--

"Santo cielo!" he exclaimed, "Is this a dream, or a miracle? Surely it must be an apparition!--My
lady Theodora, here!"

"Yes, good Pedro," mournfully replied Theodora, "this is no delusion. I am, in truth, Theodora,
thy young mistress. But the announcement shocks you! What means this confusion?" Her emotion
redoubled--she trembled and had scarcely strength to cry--"My father!--where is my father?"

Pedro heaved a sigh, and shook his head despondingly--"Alas! your father!"

"What! speak!" shrieked Theodora, struck with horror--"He is not dead!--Speak!"

"No, not dead," replied the old man, "but it seems that heaven sends you to close his eyes,
and witness his departure from this world.--Oh!" he added, sobbing violently, "sorrow hath
bowed down his venerable head: since his daughter fled from him, this has been the home of
grief and desolation."

Theodora covered her face with her hands; the consciousness of her guilt came with additional
force to pierce her heart, as the melancholy results of her dereliction were revealed to her.
Roque and Marien Rufa were much affected, and even the stern features of the renegade seemed
to be softened by a tinge of pity.

Theodora now could be detained by no consideration. The powerful impulse of nature rose superior
to the suggestions of fear. She hurried to her father's chamber--she crossed the long corridor
and reached her own saloon without opposition. There she threw a melancholy glance on the objects
around, and heaved a bitter sigh when she beheld every thing in which she formerly took delight
remaining in the same situation as when she had left them. Her books were scattered about,
and her guitar was thrown carelessly upon the sofa where she had last sung a mournful romance
previously to her meeting her lover in the garden. It was a rapid glance Theodora cast, and
yet, alas! what a world of keen sensations did it produce. Every thing around bespoke the disconsolate
tranquillity of a deserted home. Theodora at length gained her father's apartment; the door
was closed, but she listened, and distinctly heard the murmur of disease. She gently knocked;
an old female attendant opened the door--Theodora rushed in, and threw herself at the feet
of Monteblanco's couch.

"Oh! my father!" she cried, and her agony denying her the powers of utterance, silent she sank
by the bedside; yet the violent respiration and the smothered groaning which escaped from her
bosom but too plainly told the full measure of her sorrow.

"Who is this?" feebly inquired the old man, as those sounds of distress snatched him from the
feverish and troubled slumber of disease.

"Your daughter! your guilty, your unfortunate Theodora! Oh, my father, I come but to crave
your forgiveness and die."

Prostrate and weakened as Don Manuel was, the sound of his daughter's voice, and her pathetic
appeal, awakened all his latent feelings, and gave a new impulse to his decaying frame.

"Theodora! my child! my child!" he cried, raising himself on the couch; and as the sombre reflection
of a dim lamp fell on the form before him, he was chilled with horror and amazement. He saw
his Theodora; for the eyes of a father will always recognise his child, spite of the blasting
influence of misfortune in disguising the features. He recognised his daughter, but alas! how
changed was that model of female loveliness and beauty. Sunk was that eye, and quenched its
pure and brilliant fire; the smile of innocence had fled from those lips, and the soft delicate
tint of her countenance was chased away by a deadly paleness. But still Theodora was interesting
and lovely; still Monteblanco gazed on her with the tender fondness of a parent. He rose superior
to the malady which confined his withered frame to the couch of sickness; the film of decaying
nature was upon his eyes; but yet he fixed them intensely on that fading form that bore the
resemblance of his once-beloved child. He could not speak, nor did his daughter attempt to
break this pause of dreadful solemnity. Her overpowering grief burst with impetuous effusion;
in briny showers the tears fell, and her bosom seemed ready to break under the pressure of
heavy and tumultuous groans. Monteblanco was moved to tears; his parched eyelids, which appeared
unused to these testimonies of sympathy, were bathed in moisture. He wept, while in soothing
accents he endeavoured to raise his daughter from the ground. But she struggled to preserve
her humble position.

"Oh, my father!" she cried in an agonizing tone, "your kindness will kill me more than cruelty.
I am unworthy of so much tenderness; forgiveness, only forgiveness, is the melancholy boon
that the wretched, the guilty Theodora craves from her venerable and injured parent."

The recollection of some dark dream seemed now to absorb the senses of the old man. The debility
to which sickness had reduced his mental and physical powers, and the overpowering efficacy
of a first impression of pleasure and surprise, had entirely banished from his mind the dreadful
image of a parent's just indignation. At first he only saw his lost child returned to his arms,
nor in that moment of agitation did he recur to the cause of her absconding, to the state in
which she returned. All the sensations which might naturally spring in the bosom of an injured
cavalier were deadened by the more powerful feelings of a father's love.

But now that the first emotion had subsided, and that the voice of the guilty Theodora sounded
distinctly in his ear, the attention of Don Manuel was promptly recalled to images of a painful
nature. His daughter's desertion and the misery consequent on this first act of guilt, rushed
upon his mind in deepened and aggravated colours. He rudely drew back the hand which the unfortunate
Theodora was bathing with her tears, and in a tone of indignant feeling--

"Say," he cried, "art thou come to hasten my departure from a wretched state of existence?--Speak,
guilty as thou art; unfold the horrid tale; and when I am doubly cursed, when I have seen thee
thus forlorn and blasted by guilt and misfortune, then let me die!"

"Oh my father," she exclaimed with heart-rending emotion, "I am a criminal daughter--a wretch
unworthy of the name I bear--yes, I amply merit your wrath and malediction. But oh! in pity
do not deny me your forgiveness, for I have drunk deep of sorrow; if my guilt has been great,
so have likewise been the tortures that have rent the heart of your child, since the moment
of her first transgression."

"Unfold to me those horrors," exclaimed the desolate father, in a frantic tone; "perhaps their
disclosure may break my heart, and bestow on me the only comfort I can now expect--yes, speak,
and let the last words I hear from my daughter be my passport to the tomb!"

"Father, speak not thus--on me alone let the vengeance of the offended heavens fall--I alone
must expiate the guilt, for shame cannot be joined with the name of Monteblanco; but you, oh!
father, live--live to support the dignity of that name."

"You have disgraced it," interrupted Don Manuel, "but I will hear tranquilly--ere I deeply
curse, I will deliberately examine the extent of your guilt."

He seemed suddenly to acquire a dreadful composure, and Theodora, as soon as her emotion would
permit, told in the strains of deepest woe the particulars of her sorrowful history. It was
interrupted repeatedly by her disconsolate father: rage, pride, pity, and resentment, by turns
swelled his breast, according as the circumstances related excited those different feelings.
But when the harrowing recital was finished, his character seemed to assume a tone of energy
uncongenial with his present state of malady. Family pride, a sense of degradation and of injury
unrevenged, rose paramount in his mind, and stifling for the moment all the pleadings of pity
and parental tenderness, he felt an equal degree of horror and resentment against the betrayer
and his unfortunate victim.

In the first impulse, therefore, of his rage, Monteblanco fixed his despairing eyes on his
daughter, and in a tone of bitterness, enough to break the fibres of her heart, he cried out
imperiously--

"Begone from my sight for ever--begone, and let me die in peace--let me descend to my grave
without the additional pang which the presence of an ungrateful child inflicts upon me--rise
and begone; and may the stings you have planted in this withered heart, and the shame you have
heaped on my head, be your companion to the latest moment of your ignominious life."

"Oh horror! horror!" shrieked Theodora: "Father! father, you do not--you cannot curse your
hapless child. Oh! my expiation has been boundless--the justice of Heaven itself must be satisfied,
and the heart of a father cannot deny forgiveness to the poor wretch whose miseries are far--far
superior to her guilt. Oh pity me!--grant me your pardon--repulse me not thus from your heart,
and I will immediately speed to bury my sufferings and my shame amidst the gloom of a cloister."

She ceased, and the wildness of her manner, a fitful tremor that shook her frame, and the unearthly
hue that overspread her already pallid countenance, exhibited in glowing tints the havoc that
such deep anguish had made. Her trembling arms were extended, and the thin cold fingers clasped
in agony; loosely her dishevelled tresses fell on her father's couch, as in the earnestness
of grief she appealed to him for mercy.

Monteblanco looked on her, intensely looked on that harrowing picture of distress, and felt
the burning tears that descended in copious streams from their swollen springs. The vivid signs
of her repentance, and the excess of her affliction were inconsistent with depravity. Error
more than guilt was there, and Don Manuel could not behold unmoved his once beloved daughter,
the pride and solace of his declining years, reduced to her present state of utter wretchedness.
Dreadful was the conflict which the noble and high-minded cavalier had to sustain between the
stern dictates of worldly prejudice, and the tender pleadings of nature. But happily to the
father's honour, nature at length prevailed. He was softened, and in an extacy of mingled grief
and affection, he clasped his sorrowing child in his trembling arms.

Monteblanco appeared now partially relieved from a load of anguish. He consoled the poor forlorn
culprit that pathetically clung to his protection, and his fondness for the once beautiful
and accomplished Theodora, seemed to return with additional force for the unfortunate being
that stood before him.

But now new feelings took possession of his breast. As he gazed with a melancholy joy on his
restored child--as he considered with the smile of sadness the mournful devastation which one
man's treachery had wrought there, all his thoughts were forcibly drawn into one predominant
idea, whilst the decaying energies of his frame received a new impulse to second the resolutions
of his working mind. The cold and unnatural atrocity of Gomez Arias burned in his brain; he
felt the agonized throb of his injury run corrosive through his veins, and impart an uncontrollable
desire of revenge; the fever of excitement rose superior to that which had laid him prostrate,
and he seemed impatient at the weakness that confined him to his couch.

"Before I die, poor suffering mourner," he said, turning soothingly to his daughter, "I shall
see your wrongs redressed, and my insulted honor amply revenged; this sacred duty links me
yet to life, and I hope fervently in God that my existence may be protracted until that period."

The renegade was there; for when revenge was the word, how could Bermudo be absent from the
essence of his life? Theodora, overpowered with the emotion which her meeting with her father
had produced, retired to compose her disordered spirits, and in the mean time, Don Manuel had
a short but terrible explanation with the renegade: in few words this man of darkness unfolded
his powers of seconding Monteblanco's plans of vengeance.

The heated mind of the old cavalier, though in need of no stimulus, nevertheless gathered fuel
from the insinuating eloquence of the renegade. A plan was concerted, and an immediate appeal
to the queen resolved upon; but the state of Monteblanco's health did not allow him to put
in execution his determination with a promptitude consonant with his feelings. The renegade
was therefore prudently concealed for the present, to avoid the danger of inquisitive curiosity,
whilst the only obstacle that retarded the departure of Monteblanco for Granada, was the sickness
which still confined him to his couch.

CHAPTER VIII.

    Crece el tumulto, y el espanto crece:
    Y todos le abandonan--uno solo
    Fiel se presenta, y con valor perece.

                                Anon.

Don Manuel de Monteblanco has already been described as a man weighed down by years and the
iron pressure of infirmities and sorrows. The disappearance of his daughter, in whom all his
thoughts, all the affections of his heart were solely centred, tended to fill the measure of
his misery and reduce him to that gloomy state of despondency with which his lost energies
and increasing age in vain attempted to struggle. Totally unsuccessful in his endeavours to
discover the retreat of Theodora, time at length reconciled him to his state of desolation,
but it was the resignation of despair; that feeling which makes man acquiesce with gloomy calmness
in the decrees of fate, and look with tranquillity on the approach of death as the happy termination
of his sufferings.

Don Manuel had sent despatches, and made diligent inquiries to recover his daughter, but in
vain. Martha, the old duenna, from whom he might have obtained a knowledge of the truth, had
successfully baffled his pursuit, the sanctimonious hag having embarked at Barcelona, for Italy.
The vessel was wrecked, and it was supposed she perished, as no information of her could be
afterwards obtained. Don Lope Gomez Arias had all the time kept up a correspondence with the
deluded and ill-fated father, who, far from harbouring the least suspicion against the betrayer
of his daughter, considered him as one in whose advice and services he could implicitly confide.
Thus in proportion as the intelligence from Gomez Arias grew more cold and less frequent, the
hopes of the old cavalier decreased, until he was at last reduced to a state bordering upon
distraction. He lay prostrate on the couch of sickness; it was presaged he was doomed never
more to rise. Slowly death was stealing over him, and all his friends and dependants bitterly
deplored the causes which contributed to render so miserable the last days of the good old
cavalier. Indeed, it appeared as if the angel of death hovered round his fated mansion, and
awed all its inmates into a melancholy tranquillity. At this time the sudden and unexpected
appearance of Theodora worked a powerful revolution in the feelings of the family, whilst the
frame of Don Manuel, instead of sinking under the weight of the impression which it produced,
seemed to revive. His latent feelings were roused from their gloomy torpor, the slumbering
energies were called into action by the powerful excitement of new ideas, and the mind rendered
buoyant in proportion as new projects called for the exertion of its faculties. The unparalleled
effrontery and cruelty of Gomez Arias formed the source from which the drooping frame of Monteblanco
gathered life. His wrongs, instead of accelerating the progress of death, seemed instantly
to check its strides, while the desire of revenge so powerfully operated on his mind, that
it warmed the torpid energies of decaying mortality.

Three days had scarcely elapsed since the arrival of Theodora, when Don Manuel already considered
himself equal to the exertion of a journey to Granada. The distance was short, and his feelings
would not allow him a longer delay; for he conceived every dilatory suggestion to be as detrimental
to the success of his design. The renegade, instead of checking Monteblanco's views, contributed
to encourage them by his instigations.

Early, therefore, on the fourth day, every thing was prepared for their departure. Theodora
habited herself in robes of deep mourning, and departed from Guadix with her father and her
former companions in flight. The presence of Roque was indispensable, and Marien Rufa went
with the pious intention of being reconciled as soon as possible to the church, by the Archbishop
of Granada.

Whilst our travellers are journeying towards that city, let me entreat you, kind or unkind
reader, to suffer them to go in peace, and accompany me in another direction. We must now revert
to the Moors, whom we left in high excitement at Alhaurin, though the rage of Cañeri at the
flight of his captive had considerably damped the joy produced by their victory.

The disappointed Moor roamed about like a discontented mastiff, growling and casting around
his revengeful glances; whilst his dependants, awed by his ferocity, cared not to encounter
the ebullition of his wrath, but timidly skulked away: strange phenomenon of human nature!
Amongst those Moors there was not one who did not inwardly despise the petty despot; not one
that was not endowed with a greater share of personal courage, and yet they all trembled before
the man they contemned, and shrank from an object invested with no other terrors than those
which they had voluntarily conferred upon it. Where lies the spell of a tyrant that enables
him alone, hated and contemned, to tyrannize over his fellow creatures! However, the Moors
had now a respite from their fears, for the approach of the Christians compelled Cañeri to
forsake the gratification of his petty malice, and direct his thoughts to the public danger.
The town of Alhaurin, which he commanded, was well garrisoned, and had a plentiful store of
provisions; and yet the mind of the chief sadly misgave him. Every moment straggling Moors
arrived, who depicted, in the most lively colours, the terrible appearance of the Christians.
These reports, and the names of the gallant chiefs who headed the enemy, failed not to depress
the hearts of those who a week before had looked upon their triumph as certain, imagining that
the lustre of their glory was beyond the possibility of a blemish.

In the mean time Mohabed, contrary to the advice of El Feri, had descended the Sierra Bermeja
with the Moors under his command. El Feri had expostulated with his brother chief, but could
not persuade him to postpone an attempt which, planned with haste, and executed with rashness,
could only be attended with disaster. The Moors, though possessed of courage, were unskilled
in the discipline of war, and better calculated, therefore, to harrass the Spaniards by detached
bodies, in petty skirmishes, than to oppose them in the open field. Mohabed was callous to
all remonstrances; and this want of unity in the chiefs, proved a mortal blow to the Moorish
cause. El Feri saw with grief his companions descending that mountain which, to them, had afforded
a strong hold, and a secure home, to risk, by an act of imprudence, the advantages which they
had already gained.

Mohabed boldly directed his course towards Granada, in which direction Gomez Arias was said
to be advancing. The enemies shortly came in sight; but no sooner did they come within hearing,
than the Moors sent forth a wild shout of exultation, which was answered by the war-cry of
the Christians, who were burning to revenge the defeat of their countrymen in the Sierra Bermeja.

Gomez Arias beheld the advance of the enemy with transports of joy. He hailed an opportunity
of avenging the death of Aguilar, and of acquiring, by a brilliant act, fresh laurels to sanction
his ambitious and enterprizing schemes. Besides the many deceitful stratagems to which he had
resorted on account of Theodora, his unsatisfactory conduct on the day of his intended wedding,
and a degree of mystery that remained over that affair, had combined to throw a shade over
his character which he was anxious to remove by the eclat of a military exploit. The hope of
victory, the desire of retrieving the late disgrace of the Christians, and the sweet whispers
of ambition, produced a state of wild excitation he could scarcely restrain. His soldiers were
equally impatient to signalize themselves, and every one awaited the moment of action in a
ferment of expectation.

Gomez Arias made choice of an advantageous position near Rio Gordo, and there resolved to receive
the attack of the enemy. Meantime Mohabed, as if to forward the wishes of the Spaniards, hurried
on without considering the fatigue and exhaustion to which his men were reduced by a forced
march. The Christians, in their turn, beheld the approach of the rebels, as an approaching
holocaust to the spirits of those who fell in the Sierra Bermeja with the gallant Aguilar.
Don Lope commanded his men to sustain the first attack without moving, and then, taking advantage
of the confusion excited by a repulse, suddenly to charge their enemies with the united advantages
of discipline and courage. His wishes succeeded to their utmost extent. The Moors rushed on
to the charge in a blind and disorderly manner, totally heedless of the consequences of their
want of organization. The Spaniards suffered the attack with the greatest coolness and intrepidity;
when their fiery courage, acquiring additional stimulus from having been compressed, now spurred
them on, and, with their entire force, they fell on the confused and crowded masses of the
enemy with an overwhelming shock.

A dreadful carnage ensued. Terror had succeeded the first ebullition of courage, and the Moors
perceived their own rout and confusion only when it was too late. Mohabed exerted all his powers
to rally his panic-stricken followers, but it was in vain. Disorder and dismay every where
prevailed, and the Christians obtained a victory as easy as it was complete. The greater part
of the Moors were slain in the field; a few only escaped to carry the disheartening tale to
their companions. The rest, with their chief, Mohabed, fell into the hands of the enemy.

The news of this disaster caused the wildest consternation amongst the rebels at Alhaurin and
the Sierra Bermeja. El Feri de Benastepar, grieved but not surprised at the unfortunate results
of Mohabed's rashness, was active in repairing the loss, but his numbers being so much reduced,
he was now more fully confirmed in his design of confining their warfare against the Christians
to the Sierra Bermeja. With the vigour of a superior character, he did not feel dejected by
this overthrow, as he had not been wildly elated by his previous success. Not so with Cañeri:
the total rout of Mohabed, described in the darkest colours by those who had succeeded in effecting
their escape, began to awaken apprehensions for his own safety. His fear was considerably aggravated
by the arrival of the Alcayde de los Donceles, who, by forced marches, had suddenly made his
appearance before Alhaurin, to which he immediately laid siege. The disorder and discontent
of the Moors hourly increased, and the absence of the renegade was severely felt.

At this moment the Alcayde de los Donceles sent a herald to summon the rebels to surrender,
promising a full pardon should they be willing to lay down their arms and deliver up their
chiefs. But in case they neglected to adopt in time this conciliatory measure, it was threatened
that they should all be put to the sword, and the town reduced to ashes. Discontent and insubordination
now prevailed amongst the rebels. The sense of their danger--the formidable array of the enemy--and
above all, the unpopularity of their chief, Cañeri, conspired to render a great portion of
the troops willing to accede to the proposals of the Alcayde.

Soon a numerous and powerful cabal was formed, and the malcontents, deciding that their cause
was desperate, agreed to surrender. In a large body they proceeded to the palace, and insolently
demanded that the gates of the town should be opened to the Christians. Cañeri, and some of
his adherents, aware that they were made an exception to the amnesty, were naturally anxious
to defend the city, as the only means of averting their fate.

Cañeri, no longer an unruly despot, now crouched to the danger like an abject slave, and in
a piteous tone began to expostulate with the mutineers. It was a striking contrast to see the
man, who lately was the terror of all, converted into so gentle an animal as to astonish even
the Moors when they contemplated the cowardly being who had held them so long in dread. They
were not moved by his entreaties; for the supplications of a despot, instead of awakening sympathy,
serve only to augment the rage of mankind, by placing in a more striking light his pusillanimity
and unworthiness, and the shame of having suffered so despicable a thing to tyrannize over
and oppress them.

The uproar and insubordination increased as the term allowed by the Alcayde to effect a surrender
was drawing near. All obedience was now disregarded, and a party of the most turbulent resolved
to put their chief to death, and, by this means, propitiate the favor of their enemies. Accordingly,
with wild exclamations and terrific yells, they surrounded the mansion of Cañeri, and insolently
summoned the few Moors who still adhered to him to give up the despot, or that they would immediately
commit the palace to the flames. Cañeri, pale, haggard, and trembling, stood like a convicted
culprit in the scene of his former brief authority, bewildered with fear, and without knowing
what course to pursue. To escape was utterly impossible, the palace being surrounded by the
infuriate Moors, and the town beleaguered by the Spaniards. In this emergency he cast an imploring
look on his followers, and saw with despair the limited number of his adherents. In vain he
attempted to harangue the infuriated throng from the window; he was driven back by a shower
of stones and other missiles. In this suspense and agony he remained some time, during which
he had the mortification to behold his few remaining friends gradually deserting his side in
proportion as the danger became more imminent. All was tumult and anarchy, and the cries which
proceeded from without, predicted to Cañeri's ears his approaching and terrible fate. To the
curses heaped on his devoted and abhorred person, succeeded the appalling threats and the wild
savage laugh of exultation over his near downfall. Those who were formerly the most abject
of his slaves, were now more particularly conspicuous in manifesting their revengeful disposition.

The outward gates had now given way to the ponderous hammers with a terrible crash, and the
frenzied mutineers rushing impetuously in, traversed the hall and gallery without opposition,
and directed their course to the apartment of the chief.

The wretched Cañeri, alike unable to meet his death like a man, by opposing his rebellious
soldiers, or to prevent by his own hand the ignominy which threatened him, awaited in stupor
the crisis of the bursting storm. Aghast he rolled his starting eyes, glazed with agonized
terror; and he saw himself deserted in that dreadful moment by all his dependants. All had
forsaken him--all but one man; he alone, in spite of the fate which inevitably awaited his
adherence to the fallen chief, still remained faithful to his side: it was Malique. There is
an instinctive fidelity, existing sometimes in the most unrefined and barbarous minds, honorable
to human nature,--the uncouth Malique was of this stamp; he had received no favors from his
master when in prosperity, yet he now scorned to abandon him in adversity.

Cañeri looked at him, and in spite of his forlorn and perilous situation, could not but be
moved at the sight of the faithful Malique. The noble minded Moor stood by his side, his scymitar
drawn, and evincing on his countenance no signs of terror or dismay. Cañeri, frail as was the
protection that could be derived from a single man, still fondly clung to hope with the sordidness
of a cowardly mind.

"My faithful Malique," he cried in a tone of agony; "Is there no hope?"

"None," replied Malique, sadly, but resolutely: "none, but to die like brave Moors; draw your
weapon, noble Cañeri, and perish as becomes your race." The trembling chief answered with a
groan, for the mutinous soldiers had succeeded in bursting the door of the apartment, and now
with a dreadful clamour poured in, eager to strike the first blow at their wretched and defenceless
chief. Their very impatience retarded the accomplishment of their fell desire, for as they
thronged the narrow passages, some were thrown down, the impatience of the one impeding the
progress of the other.

His suspense between life and death was protracted by the confusion; and the miserable Cañeri
suffered the additional torture of hearing for some time the appalling heralds of his fate,
before the blow was struck. The door burst open, and the savage eyes of his enemies glared
upon their victim, and the glitter of their weapons struck fearfully on his sickening sight.
He stood gazing with the petrified look of despair; Malique boldly advanced and placed himself
before his master, with the resolute courage of one who has determined upon his part.

"Malique," cried the foremost of the conspirators, who happened to be one whom Cañeri had favored;
"Sheath thy weapon; we seek not for thy life." Malique made no reply, but with a single blow
he levelled the traitor with the ground; he then sprung fearlessly amongst the rebellious crowd,
and after having laid prostrate two or three of the most infuriated, he was himself struck
down, and met his death with the courage of a soldier, and the coolness of a man, who dies
in the discharge of his duty.

Grown desperate by the very impulse of terror, and moved by the sight of Malique bleeding at
his feet, Cañeri assumed a courage arising from desperation, and as the mutineers closed round
him, he dealt several blows with a stubborn resistance that might have done him honour in the
field. He was, however, soon overpowered, and fell covered with innumerable wounds. His head
was immediately severed from the body, and being affixed to a long pole, the disorderly and
motley crowd now proceeded to the camp of the Spaniards, bearing before them the bleeding and
ghastly token of their surrender.

The whole town now became the scene of indiscriminate riot; men and women, old and young, ran
about in a tumult of hope and fear, whilst the discordant shouts of the soldiery, and the appalling
sight of the procession, bearing the ensanguined trophy, greatly contributed to increase the
confusion.

El Alcayde de los Donceles having taken the necessary precautions to insure the safety of his
men, in case of treason, now entered the town of Alhaurin amidst the acclamations of his late
foes; the chiefs of the rebels had already been secured, and the disorderly multitude taking
advantage of the proffered pardon, soon evacuated the place, and dispersed in every direction.

Meantime the Alcayde, having left a garrison in the town to prevent any further trouble, proceeded
towards the Sierra Bermeja, the last and only refuge of the Moors; for the little villages
where the fire of sedition yet burned, were too insignificant to engross his attention. The
Christians therefore continued their march towards the dreadful spot, where the spirit of the
noble Aguilar seemed to hover, in expectation of redress, and where the terrible El Feri, the
most valiant of the Moors, still kept his ground.

CHAPTER IX.

    Cuan breve y cuan caduca resplandece
    Nuestra gloria! Cuan subito, en el punto
    Que deleita a los ojos, desparece!

                                Herrera.

    Che piu si apera, o che s'attende omai?
    Dopo trionfo e palma

    * * * *

    Luto e lamenti, e lagrimosi lai;

                                Tasso.

Granada, lately the seat of mourning, was again converted into a scene of indiscriminate joy.
The recent victory obtained by Gomez Arias, and the defeat of Cañeri which had so closely followed
that advantage, awoke the most pleasing sentiments in the minds of the inhabitants. They almost
considered the rebellion as at an end, assured by the late successes, and awaited with impatience
the triumphant entry of Gomez Arias and his conquering band, now rapidly approaching towards
the city. The court was assembled, and displayed the heroic Isabella in all the insignia of
royalty. Surrounded by all the principal personages in Spain, she awaited the arrival of the
victor, anxious to offer him her congratulations and to bestow upon him adequate marks of her
royal favor.

The grand saloon of the Alhambra, where formerly the Moorish sovereigns dictated their laws,
now afforded a different, though no less striking display. The dazzling glitter of armour and
the sumptuousness of official dresses, blended with the gay and richly ornamented attires of
the ladies of the court, presented a picture at once beautiful and imposing.

At this moment a rumour was heard at the extremity of the long hall. It proceeded from the
guards, who appeared anxious to deny admittance to some person who, with a feeble though piercing
voice, was heard continually to exclaim--

"Justice! I come to the Queen! Justice! She cannot deny it to an unfortunate noble!"

The queen was moved by the appeal, and ordered that the supplicant should be admitted without
delay. Scarcely were her commands obeyed, when a venerable old man, in sable robes, and bearing
on his countenance deep traces of grief, slowly and solemnly advanced towards the throne of
the queen. He supported, or rather was supported, by a young female, likewise in mourning,
and wearing a veil, which reached almost to the ground, thus concealing her beauties and her
sorrows from the curious gaze of the spectators. Two other figures followed closely, a man
of strong athletic proportions in a Moorish garb, and a thin curious-looking individual, apparently
of inferior station.

Solemn silence prevailed, and every one seemed anxious to learn the cause of this extraordinary
appeal. But when the stranger reached the throne he was immediately recognised by the queen
and several of the nobles, who could not conceal their astonishment at the sight. "Monteblanco!"
involuntarily and simultaneously escaped from several voices in the some breath.

"Yes," replied he, kneeling with his daughter at the foot of the throne; "the wretched Monteblanco
comes humbly to crave justice from his sovereign. Before his grey hairs descend with sorrow
into the tomb, he collects his weak remaining strength to seek redress from the powerful, and
to interest in his behalf the feelings of all the noble and generous. Pardon, most noble and
gracious Queen--" he then added, addressing Isabella, "Pardon, if I come in a day of glory
and jubilee, to damp with the tale of woe the joy that reigns around. But behold the picture
of an aged father, wounded and insulted in his best affections--a noble family dishonoured--the
only scion of that family reduced to the lowest state of obloquy and shame. Such a picture
may well call the attention of the just, even from objects of dazzling interest. Yes, I may
be pardoned for intruding my misfortunes on my Queen--my generous Queen, from whom alone I
can expect redress."

"You shall not demand it in vain," replied the queen; "all times are sacred to the solemn appeal
of justice, and in the court of Isabella, every other consideration shall be postponed to satisfy
its demands. Monteblanco, you have been guilty of no intrusion; speak confidently--unfold the
particulars of your grievances, and trust that nought on earth shall induce the Queen to deviate
a single step from the sacred path of justice."

"Gracious Queen!" cried Monteblanco, "that hope has been my sole inducement to prolong my miserable
existence. I am injured deeply; injured in the dearest feeling of a nobleman and a Spaniard.
The honors of my family, gained by a long line of illustrious ancestors, have been foully tarnished
by one who calls himself noble and a Spaniard, but who is alike unworthy to rank as either.
I will not enumerate the services of the Monteblancos to interest our Queen in behalf of their
affronted house; still, whilst the lustre of their name is on the point of being extinguished,
it may be permitted to the last remaining but withered branch of that noble tree, once again
to speak of those who are alas! now no more. Oh, Isabella, I had five sons; all--all deserving
of the name they bore. Bravely they fought against the Moors, and gloriously they fell before
the walls of this city, in the sacred cause of their religion and country. I was left desolate
with this only frail but dear support of my declining age."

He cast a piteous look on Theodora, and then continued. "The fate of my sons might draw tears
from the eyes of a father; but those tears were unmingled with the bitterness of shame. With
pride I remembered that my boys died for their country. Heaven! could I then surmise that in
my unfortunate daughter all the former glory so dearly earned should be degraded! Could I ever
anticipate that the day should come when the noble fate of my sons would be to me a subject
of regret! I am now reduced to envy my country those lives which might now stand forward to
avenge the honor of their house. My daughter, blessed with innocence and beauty, gentle and
kind in her nature, was the only solace of my declining years--the only sweet and blooming
flower that still grew smiling beside the parent stem. Yet of this, my only remaining comfort,
I was treacherously and cruelly deprived. A ruffian, honored far beyond his deserts, and rich
in the plenitude of power, envied me this solitary consolation. My unfortunate daughter was
seduced from her home! Oh heaven! that a Monteblanco should be reduced to confess his shame!
She was seduced from the fond arms of her parent under the most sacred promises, and then,
in violation of his plighted honor, the miscreant cast her aside to wither in neglect and obscurity.
But it was necessary that the most atrocious example of barbarity should accompany his base
desertion. In the arms of sleep, the hapless victim was abandoned amidst the wilderness of
the Alpujarras. She fell into the power of the Moors, from whom she experienced all the terrors
which her forlorn situation was naturally calculated to produce. Fortune threw her again in
contact with her betrayer, when the cold heartless ruffian, under the most insidious promises
of false repentance, drew her from the house of her protector, that she might be no obstruction
to his ambitious career. He again delivered her to the power of the Moors, the rebels whose
heads were proscribed, and with whom the guilty man scrupled not to hold communion, in open
defiance of the repeated and solemnly promulgated decree of your highness."

Here Monteblanco stopped, and a suppressed murmur of indignation ran through the whole assembly.

"Such an example of depravity," continued the old man, "astonishes you, but your wonder will
be increased when you learn that the man who has so disgracefully added treason to his crimes
is one high in rank, great in military renown, and honored by the favour of his sovereign."

"Those circumstances," cried the queen, "render his conduct doubly criminal. Monteblanco, your
wrongs shall be redressed. Let the guilt be firmly established, and then, were the culprit
the first man in the kingdom, the support of my throne--nay," she added, rising in her anger,
"were he even of my own blood, he shall not be screened from the rigour of the law." As she
delivered these words a cloud of indignation mantled on her brow, and her eyes shot the fire
of insulted majesty as she looked proudly on the surrounding nobles and warriors.

A pause ensued, and the splendid train that had assembled to celebrate a victory, now gazed
on each other in blank dismay, expecting to hear in the name of the criminal one of their own
friends or relatives.

"Pronounce the name of the traitor," cried the queen, "and if he be not here already, he shall
be summoned this very moment into our presence, to answer these charges."

"His name is powerful," replied Monteblanco.

"Not more so than my will," nobly retorted Isabella.

At this moment a burst of popular applause announced the triumphant entry of the victorious
Spaniard, and the name of Gomez Arias, in the wild strains of a grateful multitude, was repeated
by a thousand voices.

"His name?" impatiently demanded the Queen.

Viva! Gomez Arias, Viva! again burst on the ears of the Court, and Monteblanco, with bitter
emphasis, exclaimed:--

"Hear! hear his name honored with the strains of triumph: hear the name which causes my misery
and dishonor, now receiving the glorious reward of the hero! Oh, shame on my withered arm;
where is the strength of my youth; and where the sons of my name?"

"Gomez Arias!" cried the queen and the courtiers with one simultaneous cry of amazement--"Gomez
Arias!"

"'Tis he!" replied Monteblanco, firmly and indignantly.

A dismal silence then succeeded, and the emotion of the queen became strongly apparent. She
felt that, in the person of a triumphant conqueror, she was about to receive a criminal, and
that the reward due to his services could not avert the punishment incurred by his guilt. The
surrounding courtiers stood aghast, gazing in wonder on the queen. They were well assured of
the rigid impartiality which had swayed her conducts through life; and aware that not even
all the powerful voices in the country could successfully plead against the claims of the unprotected,
or stay the decree of justice upon the oppressor and the criminal.

Meantime Gomez Arias, with all the exultation of a conquering warrior, entered the hall, attended
by his principal adherents, and preceded by Mohabed and other captive chiefs. He advanced in
joyful expectation towards the throne, when suddenly his course was arrested by a dreadful vision.

Fixed in mute astonishment, he stood, as he gazed upon the group, at the foot of the throne;
an ashy paleness succeeded the glowing tints of joy yet visible on his countenance. His confusion
became apparent, and was productive of the most injurious surmises in the minds of all around.
Yet Gomez Arias raised his eyes towards his sovereign, but from her features he could augur
nothing favorable; no encouragement could be traced in their calm and distant expression.

A consciousness of guilt now mastered all his powers of dissimulation, and the nature of Gomez
Arias seemed, in a few moments, to have undergone a total and inexplicable revolution. His
joyous attendants were surprised at these unwonted signs of consternation; and the sounds of
pleasure and triumph suddenly ceased. A deadly spell seemed to have been suddenly cast over
the scene, and every one remained in a state of terrible suspense. At length Gomez Arias, striving
to conceal his agitation with an assumption of boldness and ease that ill consorted with his
manner--"Most gracious Isabella," he cried, "behold the rebellious Mohabed at your royal feet,
and accept the humble congratulations and devout attachment of your faithful servant."

"Don Lope Gomez Arias," answered the queen, with stern dignity of tone and demeanor, "before
we receive your congratulations, and acknowledge your services--before we can consider you
with the regard due to the glorious character of a victorious soldier, you must remove certain
accusations which have this day been averred against you by the noble and respected individual
now before the throne. Answer these serious charges before you claim a title to our gratitude
and favor; for not all the splendor of conquest shall throw a veil over flagrant guilt. Approach,
and behold those whom you have wronged--mark well the situation to which you have reduced a
noble family, and say, what you can plead in justification."

Don Lope cast a glance on the group; but when he perceived his man, Roque, whose presence deprived
him of the little opportunity left for prevarication, hope forsook him, and the presence of
mind which had served him on so many occasions proved utterly insufficient at this critical
moment. He foresaw that any attempt at exculpation would be as fruitless as dangerous. He therefore
continued in mute silence, and appeared to plead guilty to the accusation. His countenance,
however, gradually cleared, as though a cheering ray had suddenly beamed upon him. He seemed
to adopt some resolution so imperiously demanded by circumstances--he regained his composure;
but a deep sigh escaped him; it was the last testimony of regret that announced the disappointment
of his hopes. No alternative was left; he must relinquish all thoughts of Leonor; and he accordingly
attuned his mind to receive with deference the commands which he awaited from the queen.

"Gomez Arias," said Isabella after a lapse of time, "that silence clearly bespeaks thy conviction;
the honor of a noble family has been stained. It now remains for you to make all the reparation
in your power; and that must be done immediately; for I will not leave this place, nor shall
you leave my presence, till I see the victim of your wantonness and cruelty restored to that
honor and happiness of which she has been deprived."

Gomez Arias heard these words with apparent respect and humility. Foiled completely in his
former hopes, he yet was willing to preserve the favor of the queen, and to effect this it
was necessary to deprecate the indignation which his conduct had excited. He therefore assumed
all the symptoms of repentance, without any alloy of fear or servility, and casting himself
at the foot of the throne, "It would never," said he, "be worthy of Gomez Arias to resist in
any instance the will of his sovereign; much less on an occasion when honor induces him to
follow her dictates."

"Pity," answered Isabella sarcastically, "that this consideration did not sooner induce you
to adopt such a course, for much misery had by these means been prevented. But the evil is
already done, and must be instantly repaired.

"Don Lope Gomez Arias," she then proceeded, "This very moment you must plight your hand and
faith to Theodora de Monteblanco. You appear fully sensible of the justice of such a measure,
and therefore in my presence let the ceremony be performed."

One of the chaplains of the queen was immediately summoned, and before the assembled court,
whose looks bespoke their astonishment at this extraordinary scene, the unfortunate Theodora
became the wife of Gomez Arias. With trembling steps, and supported by her father, she advanced
to the foot of the throne. Don Lope approached her, not only without symptoms of dislike, but
even with some appearance of a kindly feeling, the sincerity of which was however of a doubtful
nature, as little trust could be placed in a conversion so suddenly effected. Nor did Theodora,
blinded as she was by her infatuation, confide entirely in his specious address; but yet the
thought of restoring peace of mind to her father, and honor to herself, rose paramount to every
other consideration. Amidst the tears that dimmed her eyes, and the lines of sorrow that marked
her countenance, some grateful signs of happiness were discernible, like the cheering rays
of the sun struggling through the gloom of the clouds.

She received the hand of Gomez Arias tremblingly, with a mixed sensation of joy and dread.
Alas! when she took that hand, once so dear, it seemed deadly cold, and the touch imparted
to her heart a chill she could not define.

As soon as the ceremony was performed, the queen arose, and with a stateliness of manner that
struck with awe the surrounding train--

"Don Lope," she said, "You have, as far as it lay in your power, repaired the injury you have
done to the daughter of Monteblanco; you must now answer your Queen, for treason to your country."

Gomez Arias was struck with astonishment, not so much from the consciousness of guilt, as from
the suddenness of such an unexpected charge. As soon, therefore, as he recovered from his surprise,
with indignant pride he exclaimed: "What! Gomez Arias charged with treason, when he comes to
afford the most incontestable proofs of his love and devotion to his country? Where--where
is the villain who dares affix so foul a stigma to the name of Gomez Arias? Where is he?--let
him appear, that I may confound and chastise the miscreant;" then looking round with haughtiness,
he added, "who dares charge me with treason?"

"I dare," cried a voice; and presently the renegade, who, till then, had been concealed from
Don Lope, came forward with boldness, and fixing his eyes steadfastly on Gomez Arias--

"I dare," he repeated, "in the face of Spain, and I will make good my charge."

Gomez Arias staggered at the sight; the apparition had burst upon him so unexpectedly, that,
unable to contain his emotion,--

"Ah!" he cried, faultering; "what! the Moor here!"

"The Moor!" echoed the queen; "then you know the Moor?"

"I have seen the wretch before," replied Gomez Arias; "but how dares he throw on me so dark
an imputation?"

He cast a look of darkening anger on the renegade, but Bermudo returned the haughty glance
with a cold sneer.

"Proud man," he exclaimed, "your wrath affrights not me, and humility becomes you better than
arrogance. You can as little intimidate me, as you can effectually contradict the veracity
of my accusation. Queen of Spain," he then cried in a tone of fearless intrepidity, "and you,
ye nobles of Granada, behold in me one of the rebels who has laid down his arms and accepted
the amnesty. An eager desire to unmask that haughty man, has obliged me to abandon my companions,
and appear within the walls of a Christian city. My motives for proceeding against Don Lope
will shortly come to light; but first his guilt shall be established. His conviction and punishment
will necessarily follow, if the court of Isabella can boast real claims to that impartial justice,
for which the world gives it credit."

These words were delivered with such firmness of tone and manner, that the friends of Gomez
Arias began to look on him with mingled pity and amazement. He, however, cast around a glance
of indignant contempt; then he preserved a sullen silence, attempting not to contradict the
statement of his accuser.

"What answer make you to this charge?" demanded the queen, observing the pertinacity of his
silence.

"Answer!" replied Don Lope, with overpowering indignation; "none! Gomez Arias will not deign
to answer the accusations of a vile rebel, nor will he afford his Queen and brethren in arms
the satisfaction of seeing the established character of a noble Christian put in competition
with the base assertions of a villain."

Hurt as the queen felt at the arrogance and insolence couched in these words, she forbore manifesting
her displeasure.

"No, Don Lope," she said, "your Queen is grateful, but not more than she is just. You stand
accused of treason, but the mere word of that Moor will not be sufficient in itself to induce
your Queen, or your brethren in arms, to convict of treason one of the first knights in Spain.
We must have proof--evident, irrefragable proofs of the crime alleged against you, before a
decision is pronounced."

"Proofs!" exclaimed the renegade, with a sarcastic sneer--"such a demand is too just to be
denied; and who would be the presumptuous madman, that dare impeach Gomez Arias without proofs?
In the first place, therefore, the Queen will perhaps not question the validity of this." And
saying this, he took a ring from his finger, and approaching the throne, added:--

"Your Highness cannot have forgotten this pledge of your regard for Gomez Arias, though that
nobleman seems totally to have overlooked such a gift, when he speaks in dubious terms of your
Highness's gratitude."

A gloomy joy animated the features of the renegade, as he pronounced these words; a demoniac
triumph was visible on his countenance.

The queen felt an involuntary shudder as she received the ring, whilst Gomez Arias stood in
speechless suspense, a transitory, but deadly paleness driving the flush of anger from his
countenance.

"Moor--how camest thou by this ring?" asked the queen.

"It was," answered Bermudo, "a recompence for the services I rendered Don Lope Gomez Arias.
When this gallant knight wished to part with yon noble lady, I was the agent in the transaction;
I procured him the interview with Cañeri."

"Cañeri!" exclaimed several voices in consternation.

"Cañeri, aye, Cañeri," repeated the renegade, unmoved. "Could the noble Gomez Arias enter into
a treaty with a rebel less than a chief. I was the individual who introduced these personages
to each other, and surely for so considerable a service could I expect less than a ring--a
ring valuable indeed in itself--more valuable from the illustrious personage to whom it had
belonged--more precious still, as I have it in my power to return it to that elevated owner."

The solemn mockery of this speech was suddenly interrupted by the queen, while, with looks
of anger and displeasure--

