A new and most valuable method of determining the molecular weights of non-volatile as well
as volatile substances has just been brought into prominence by Prof. Victor Meyer (Berichte,
1888, No. 3). The method itself was discovered by M. Raoult, and finally perfected by him in
1886, but up to the present has been but little utilized by chemists. It will be remembered
that Prof. Meyer has recently discovered two isomeric series of derivatives of benzil, differing
only in the position of the various groups in space. If each couple of isomers possess the
same molecular weight, a certain modification of the new Van't Hoff-Wislicenus theory as to
the position of atoms in space is rendered necessary; but if the two are polymers, one having
a molecular weight n times that of the other, then the theory in its present form will still
hold. Hence it was imperative to determine without doubt the molecular weight of some two typical
isomers. But the compounds in question are not volatile, so that vapor density determinations
were out of the question. In this difficulty Prof. Meyer has tested the discovery of M. Raoult
upon a number of compounds of known molecular weights, and found it perfectly reliable and
easy of application. The method depends upon the lowering of the solidifying point of a solvent,
such as water, benzine, or glacial acetic acid, by the introduction of a given weight of the
substance whose molecular weight is to be determined. The amount by which the solidifying point
is lowered is connected with the molecular weight, M, by the following extremely simple formula:
M = T x (P / C); where C represents the amount by which the point of congelation is lowered,
P the weight of anhydrous substance dissolved in 100 grammes of the solvent, and T a constant
for the same solvent readily determined from volatile substances whose molecular weights are
well known. On applying this law to the case of two isomeric benzil derivatives, the molecular
weights were found, as expected, to be identical, and not multiples; hence Prof. Meyer is perfectly
justified in introducing the necessary modification in the "position in space" theory. Now
that this generalization of Raoult is placed upon a secure basis, it takes its well merited
rank along with that of Dulong and Petit as a most valuable means of checking molecular weights,
especially in determining which of two or more possible values expresses the truth.--Nature.

II. LOOPS.

If the wire, with its lines of force, be bent into the form of a vertical circle 1-1/8 in.
in diameter, and fixed in a glass plate, some of the lines of force will be seen parallel to
the axis of the circle. If the loop is horizontal, the lines become points.

FIELDS OF LOOPS AND MAGNETS.

Place now a vertical loop opposite to the pole of a short bar magnet cemented to the glass
plate with the N pole facing it. If the current passes in one direction the field will be as
represented by Fig. 14b; if it is reversed by the commutator, Fig. 14c is an image of the spectrum.
Applying Faraday's second principle, it appears that attraction results in the first case,
and repulsion in the second. The usual method of stating the fact is, that if you face the
loop and the current circulates from left over to right, the N end of the needle will be drawn
into the loop.

It thus becomes evident that the loop is equivalent to a flat steel plate, one surface of which
is N and the other S. Facing the loop if the current is right handed, the S side is toward you.

TO SHOW THE ACTUAL ATTRACTION AND REPULSION OF A MAGNET BY A "MAGNETIC SHELL."

Produce the field as before (Fig. 14), carry a suspended magnetic needle over the field. It
will tend to place itself parallel to the lines of force, with the N pole in such a position
that, if the current passes clockwise as you look upon the plane of the loop, it will be drawn
into the loop. Reversing the position of the needle or of current will show repulsion.

Clerk Maxwell's method of stating the fact is that "every portion of the circuit is acted on
by a force urging it across the lines of magnetic induction, so as to include a greater number
of these lines within the embrace of the circuit."[2]

   [Footnote 2: Electricity and Magnetism, Maxwell, p. 137, §§ 489,
   490.]

If the horizontal loop is used (Fig. 14a), the needle tries to assume a vertical position,
with the N or S end down, according to the direction of the current.

If it is desired to show that if the magnet is fixed and the loop free, the loop will be attracted
or repelled, a special support is needed.

A strip (Fig. 15) of brass, J, having two iron mercury cups, K{1} K{2}, screwed near the ends,
one insulated from the strip, is fastened upon the horizontal arm of the ring support, Fig.
9, already described. The cups may be given a slight vertical motion for accurate adjustment.
Small conductors (Figs. 16, 17, 18), which are circles, rectangles, solenoids, etc., may be
suspended from the top of the plate by unspun silk, with the ends dipping into the mercury.
The apparatus is therefore an Ampere's stand, with the weight of the movable circuit supported
by silk and with means of adjusting the contacts. The rectangles or circles are about two inches
in their extreme dimension. Horizontal and vertical astatic system are also used--Figs. 18,
18a. The apparatus may be used with either the horizontal or vertical lantern.

If the rectangle or circle is suspended and a magnet brought near it when the current passes,
the loop will be attracted or repelled, as the law requires. The experiments usually performed
with De la Rive's floating battery may be exhibited.

The great similarity between the loop and the magnet may be shown by comparing the fields above
(Figs. 14b, 14c) with the actual fields of two bar magnets, Figs. 19, 19a.

It will be noticed that the lines in Fig. 19, where unlike poles are opposite, are gathered
together as in Fig. 14b,--where the N end of the magnet faces the S side of the magnetic shell;
and that in 19a, where two norths face, the line of repulsion has the same general character
as in 14c, in which the N end of the magnet faces the N side of the shell.

Instead of placing the magnet perpendicular to the plane of the loop, it may be placed parallel
to its plane. Fig. 14d shows the magnet and loop both vertical.

The field shows that the magnet will be rotated, and will finally take for stable equilibrium
an axial position, with the N end pointing as determined by the rule already given.

If two loops are placed with their axes in the same straight line as follows, Figs. 14f, 14g,
a reproduction of Figs. 14b and 14c will become evident.

It is obvious from these spectra that the two loops attract or repel each other according to
the direction of the current, which fact may be shown by bringing a loop near to another loop
suspended from the ring stand, Fig. 9, or by using the ordinary apparatus for that purpose--De
la Rive's battery and Ampere's stand.

If two loops are placed in the same vertical plane, as in Figs. 14h and 14i, there will be
attraction or repulsion, according to the direction of the adjacent currents. The fields become
the same as Figs. 8 and 8a, as may be seen by comparing them with those figures.

Having thus demonstrated the practical identity of a loop and a magnet, we proceed to examine
the effects produced by loops on straight wires.

If the loop is placed with a straight wire in its plane along one edge, there will be attraction
or repulsion, according to the direction of the two currents, Figs. 20 and 20a, which are obviously
the same as Figs. 8 and 8a.

If the wire is placed parallel to the plane of the loop and to one side, Figs. 20b and 20c,
there will be rotation (same as Figs. 4b and 4c).

If the loop is horizontal and the wire vertical and on one side, the Figs. 20d, 20e are the
same as 4d and 4e.

If the loop is horizontal and the wire vertical and axial, 20f and 20g, there will be rotation,
and the figures are mere duplicates of 4g and 4h.

Fig. 20h shows a view of 20f when the wire is horizontal and the plane of the loop vertical.
It is like 4i.

To verify these facts, suspend a loop from Ampere's stand, Fig. 9, and bring a straight wire near.

A small rectangle or circle may be hung in a similar manner. When the circuit is closed, it
tends to place itself with its axis in a N and S direction through the earth's influence. The
supposition of an E and W horizontal earth current will explain this action.

To exemplify rotation of a vertical wire by a horizontal loop, Fig. 21 may be shown.

A circular copper vessel with a glass bottom (Fig. 21) has wound around its rim several turns
of insulated wire. In the center of the vessel is a metallic upright upon the top of which
is balanced in a mercury cup a light copper [inverted U] shaped strip. The ends of the inverted
U dip into the dilute sulphuric acid contained in the circular vessel.

The current passes from, the battery, up the pillar, down the legs of the U to the liquid,
thence through the insulated wire back to the battery.

This is the usual form of apparatus, modified in size for the vertical or horizontal lantern.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

POISONS.

"Poisons and poisoning" was the subject of a discourse a few days ago at the Royal Institution.
The lecturer, Professor Meymott Tidy, began by directing attention to the derivation of the
word "toxicology," the science of poisons. The Greek word [Greek: toxon] signified primarily
that specially oriental weapon which we call a bow, but the word in the earliest authors included
in its meaning the arrow shot from the bow. Dioscorides in the first century A.D. uses the
word [Greek: to toxikon] to signify the poison to smear arrows with. Thus, by giving an enlarged
sense to the word--for words ever strive to keep pace, if possible, with scientific progress,
we get our modern and significant expression toxicology as the science of poisons and of poisoning.
A certain grim historical interest gathers around the story of poisons.

It is a history worth studying, for poisons have played their part in history. The "subtil
serpent" taught men the power of a poisoned fang. Poison was in the first instance a simple
instrument of open warfare. Thus, our savage ancestors tipped their arrows with the snake poison
in order to render them more deadly. The use of vegetable extracts for this purpose belongs
to a later period. The suggestion is not unreasonable that if war chemists with their powders,
their gun cotton, and their explosives had not been invented, warlike nations would have turned
for their instrumenta belli to toxicologists and their poisons. At any rate, the toxicologists
may claim that the very cradle of science was rocked in the laboratory of the toxicological
worker. Early in the history of arrow tipping the admixture of blood with the snake poison
became a common practice. Even the use of animal fluids alone is recorded--e.g., the arrows
of Hercules, which were dipped in the gall of the Lernæan hydra. Hercules himself at last fell
a victim to the blood stained tunic of the dead Centaur Nessus. As late as the middle of the
last century Blumenbach persuaded one of his class to drink 7 oz. of warm bullock's blood in
order to disprove the then popular notion that even fresh blood was a poison. The young man
who consented to drink the blood did not die a martyr to science.

The first important question we have to answer is, What do we mean by a poison? The law has
not defined a poison, although it requires at times a definition. The popular definition of
a poison is "a drug which destroys life rapidly when taken in small quantity." The terms "small
quantity" as regards amount, and "rapidly" as regards time, are as indefinite as Hodge's "piece
of chalk" as regards size. The professor defined a poison as "any substance which otherwise
than by the agency of heat or electricity is capable of destroying life, either by chemical
action on the tissues of the living body or by physiological action by absorption into the
living system." This definition excepted from the list of poisons all agencies that destroyed
life by a simple mechanical action, thus drawing a distinction between a "poison" and a "destructive
thing." It explains why nitrogen is not a poison and why carbonic acid is, although neither
can support life. This point the lecturer illustrated. A poison must be capable of destroying
life. It was nonsense to talk of a "deadly poison." If a body be a poison, it is deadly; if
it be not deadly, it is not a poison. Three illustrations of the chemical actions of poisons
were selected. The first was sulphuric acid. Here the molecular death of the part to which
the acid was applied was due to the tendency of sulphuric acid to combine with water. The stomach
became charred. The molecular death of certain tissues destroyed the general functional rhythmicity
of the system until the disturbance became general, somatic death (that is, the death of the
entire body) resulting. The second illustration was poisoning by carbonic oxide. The professor
gave an illustrated description of the origin and properties of the coloring matter of the
blood, known as hæmoglobin, drawing attention to its remarkable formation by a higher synthetical
act from the albumenoids in the animal body, and to the circumstance that, contrary to general
rule, both its oxidation and reduction may be easily effected. It was explained that on this
rhythmic action of oxidizing and reducing hæmoglobin life depended.

Carbonic oxide, like oxygen, combined with hæmoglobin, produced a comparatively stable compound;
at any rate, a compound so stable that it ceased to be the efficient oxygen carrier of normal
hæmoglobin. This interference with the ordinary action of hæmoglobin constituted poisoning
by carbonic oxide. In connection with this subject the lecturer referred to the use of the
spectroscope as an analytical agent, and showed the audience the spectrum of blood extracted
from the hat of the late Mr. Briggs (for the murder of whom Muller was executed), and this
was the first case in which the spectroscopic appearances of blood formed the subject matter
of evidence. The third illustration of poisoning was poisoning by strychnine. Here again the
power of the drug for undergoing oxidation was illustrated. It was noted that although our
knowledge of the precise modus operandi of the poison was imperfect, nevertheless that the
coincidence of the first fit in the animal after its exhibition with the formation of reduced
hæmoglobin in the body was important.

There followed upon this view of the chemical action of poison in the living body this question:
Given a knowledge of certain properties of the elements--for example, their atomic weights,
their relative position according to the periodic law, their spectroscopic character, and so
forth--or given a knowledge of the molecular constitution, together with the general physical
and chemical properties of compounds--in other words, given such knowledge of the element or
compound as may be learned in a laboratory--does such knowledge afford us any clew whereby
to predicate the probable action of the element or of the compound respectively on the living
body? The researches of Blake, Rabuteau, Richet, Bouchardat, Fraser, and Crum-Brown were discussed,
the results of their observations being that at present we were unable to determine toxicity
or physiological action by any general chemical or physical researches. The lecturer pointed
out that such relationship was scarcely to be expected. Poisons acted on different tissues,
while even the same poison, according to the dose administered and other conditions, expended
its toxic activity in different ways.

Further, the allotropic modifications of elements and the isomerism of compounds increased
the difficulties. Why should yellow phosphorus be an active poison and red phosphorus be inert?
Why should piperine be the poison of all poisons to keep you awake, and morphine the poison
of all poisons to send you asleep, although to the chemist these two bodies were of identical
composition? The lecturer urged that the science of medicine (for the poisons of the toxicologist
were the medicines of the physician) must be experimental. Guard jealously against all wanton
cruelty to animals; but to deprive the higher creation of life and health lest one of the lower
creatures should suffer was the very refinement of cruelty. "Are ye not of much more value
then they?" spoke a still small voice amid the noisy babble of well intentioned enthusiasts.--London
Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTIFICIAL MOTHER FOR INFANTS.

All the journals have recently narrated the curious story of the triplets that were born prematurely
at the clinic of Assas Street. Placed at their birth in an apparatus constructed on the principle
of an incubator, in order to finish their development therein, these frail beings are doing
wonderfully well, thanks to the assiduous care bestowed upon them, and are even showing, it
appears, a true emulation to become persons of importance.

Every one now knows the incubator or "artificial hen"--that box with a glass top in which,
under the influence of a mild heat, hens' eggs, laid upon wire cloth, hatch of themselves in
a few days, and allow pretty little chicks to make their way out of the cracked shell.

This ingenious apparatus, which has been adopted by most breeders, gives so good results that
it has already supplanted the mother hens in all large poultry yards, and at present, thanks
to it, large numbers of eggs that formerly ended in omelets are now changing into chickens.

Although not belonging to the same race, a number of children at their birth are none the less
delicate than these little chicks.

There are some that are so puny and frail among the many brought into the world by the anæmic
and jaded women of the present generation that, in the first days of their existence, their
blood, incapable of warming them, threatens at every instant to congeal in their veins. There
are some which, born prematurely, are so incapable of taking nourishment of themselves, of
breathing and of moving, that they would be fatally condemned to death were not haste made
to take up their development where nature left it, in order to carry it on and finish it. In
such a case it is not, as might be supposed, to the exceptionally devoted care of the mother
that the safety of these delicate existences is confided. As the sitting hen often interferes
with the hatching of her eggs by too much solicitude, so the most loving and attentive mother,
in this case, would certainly prove more prejudicial than useful to her nursling. So, for this
difficult task that she cannot perform, there is advantageously substituted for her what is
known as an artificial mother. This apparatus, which is identical with the one employed for
the incubation of chickens, consists of a large square box, supporting, upon a double bottom,
a series of bowls of warm water. Above these vessels, which are renewed as soon as the temperature
lowers, is arranged a basket filled with cotton, and in this is laid, as in a nest, the weak
creature which could not exist in the open air.

Through the glass in the cover, the mother has every opportunity of watching the growth of
her new born babe; but this is all that she is allowed to do. The feeding of the infant, which
is regulated by the physician at regular hours, is effected by means of a special rubber apparatus,
through the aid of an intelligent woman who has sole charge of this essential operation. The
aeration of the little being, which is no less important, is assured by a free circulation,
in the box, of pure warm air, which is kept at a definite temperature and is constantly renewed
through a draught flue. The least variations in the temperature are easily seen through a horizontal
thermometer placed beneath the glass.

Thus protected against all those bad influences that are often so fatal at the inception of
life, even to the healthiest babes, preserved from an excess or insufficiency of food, sheltered
from cold and dampness, protected against clumsy handling and against pernicious microbes,
sickly or prematurely born babies soon acquire enough strength in the apparatus to be able,
finally, like others, to face the various perils that await us from the cradle.

The results that have been obtained for some time back at Paris, where the surroundings are
so unfavorable, no longer leave any doubt as to the excellence of the process. At the lying-in
clinic of Assas Street, Doctors Farnier, Chantreuil, and Budin succeeded in a few days in bringing
some infants born at six months (genuine human dolls, weighing scarcely more than from 2¼ to
4½ pounds) up to the normal weight of 7½ pounds.--L'Illustration.

       *       *       *       *       *

GASTROSTOMY.

Surgery has, as is well known, made great progress in recent years. Apropos of this subject,
we shall describe to our readers an operation that was recently performed by one of our most
skillful surgeons, Dr. Terrillon, under peculiar circumstances, in which success is quite rare.
The subject was a man whose oesophagus was obstructed, and who could no longer swallow any
food, or drink the least quantity of liquid, and to whom death was imminent. Dr. Terrillon
made an incision in the patient's stomach, and, through a tube, enabled him to take nourishment
and regain his strength. We borrow a few details concerning the operation from a note presented
by the doctor at one of the last meetings of the Academy of Medicine.

Mr. X., fifty-three years of age, is a strong man of arthritic temperament. He has suffered
for several years with violent gastralgia and obstinate dyspepsia, for which he has long used
morphine. The oesophagal symptoms appear to date back to the month of September, 1887, when
he had a painful regurgitation of a certain quantity of meat that he had swallowed somewhat
rapidly.

Since that epoch, the passage of solid food has been either painful or difficult, and often
followed by regurgitation. The food seemed to stop at the level of the pit of the stomach.
So he gave up solid food, and confined himself to liquids or semi-liquids, which readily passed
up to December 20, 1887. At this epoch, he remarked that liquids were swallowed with difficulty,
especially at certain moments, they remaining behind the sternum and afterward slowly descending
or being regurgitated. This state of things was more marked especially in the first part of
January. He was successfully sounded several times, but soon the sound was not able to pass.
Doctors Affre and Bazenet got him to come to Paris, where he arrived February 5, 1888.

For ten days, the patient had not been able to swallow anything but about a quart of milk or
bouillon in small doses. As soon as he had swallowed the liquid, he experienced distress over
the pit of the stomach, followed by painful regurgitations. For three days, every attempt made
by Dr. Terrillon to remove the obstacle that evidently existed at the level of the cardia entirely
failed. Several times after such attempts a little blood was brought out, but there was never
any hemorrhage.

The patient suffered, grew lean and impatient, and was unable to introduce into his stomach
anything but a few spoonfuls of water from time to time. As he was not cachectic and no apparent
ganglion was found, and as his thoracic respiration was perfect, it seemed to be indicated
that an incision should be made in his stomach. The patient at once consented.

The operation was performed February 9, at 11 o'clock, with the aid of Dr. Routier, the patient
being under the influence of chloroform. A small aperture was made in the wall of the stomach
and a red rubber sound was at once introduced in the direction of the cardia and great tuberosity.
This gave exit to some yellowish gastric liquid. The tube was fixed in the abdominal wall with
a silver wire. The operation took three quarters of an hour. The patient was not unduly weakened,
and awoke a short time afterward. He had no nausea, but merely a burning thirst. The operation
was followed by no peritoneal reaction or fever. Three hours afterward, bouillon and milk were
injected and easily digested.

Passing in silence the technical details, which would not interest the majority of our readers,
we shall be content to say that Mr. X., thanks to this alimentation, has regained his strength,
and is daily taking his food as shown in Fig. 1. The aperture made in the stomach permits of
the introduction of the rubber apparatus shown in Fig. 2, the object of which is to prevent
the egress of the liquids of the stomach and at the same time to introduce food. A funnel is
fitted to the tube, and the liquid or semi-liquid food is directly poured into the stomach.
Digestion proceeds with perfect regularity, and Mr. X., who has presented himself, of his own
accord, before the Academy, and whom we have recently seen, has resumed his health and good
spirits.--La Nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO CATCH AND PRESERVE MOTHS AND BUTTERFLIES.

There is no part of our country in which one cannot form a beautiful local collection, and
any young person who wants amusement, instruction, and benefit from two, three, or more weeks
in the country can find all in catching butterflies and moths, arranging them, and studying
them up.

Provide yourself first with two tools, a net and a poison bottle. The net may be made of any
light material. I find the thinnest Swiss muslin best. Get a piece of iron wire, not as heavy
as telegraph wire, bend it in a circle of about ten inches diameter, with the ends projecting
from the circle two or three inches; lash this net frame to the end of a light stick four or
five feet long. Sew the net on the wire. The net must be a bag whose depth is not quite the
length of your arm--so deep that when you hold the wire in one hand you can easily reach the
bottom with the bottle (to be described) in the other hand. Never touch wing of moth or butterfly
with your fingers. The colors are in the dusty down (as you call it), which comes off at a
touch. Get a glass bottle or vial, with large, open mouth, and cork which you can easily put
in and take out. The bottles in which druggists usually get quinine are the most convenient.
It should not be so large that you cannot easily carry it in your pocket. Let the druggist
put in the bottle a half ounce of cyanide of potassium; on this pour water to the depth of
about three-fourths of an inch, and then sprinkle in and mix gently and evenly enough plaster
of Paris to form a thick cream, which will set in a cake in the bottom of the vial. Let it
stand open an hour to set and dry, then wipe out the inside of the vial above the cake and
keep it corked. This is the regular entomological poison bottle, used everywhere. An insect
put in it dies quietly at once. It will last several months.

These two tools, the net and the poison bottle, are your catching and killing instruments.
You know where to look for butterflies. Moths are vastly more numerous, and while equally beautiful,
present more varieties of beauty than butterflies. They can be found by daylight in all kinds
of weather, in the grass fields, in brush, in dark woods, sometimes on flowers. Many spend
the daytime spread out, others with close shut wings on the trunks of trees in dark woods.
The night moths are more numerous and of great variety. They come around lamps, set out on
verandas in the night, in great numbers. A European fashion is to spread on tree trunks a sirup
made of brown sugar and rum, and visit them once in a while at night with net and lantern.
Catch your moth in the net, take him out of it by cornering him with the open mouth of your
poison bottle, so that you secure him unrubbed.

Now comes the work of stretching your moths. This is easy, but must be done carefully. Provide
your own stretching boards. These can be made anywhere with hammer and nail and strips of wood.
You want two flat strips of wood about seven-eighths or three-fourths of an inch thick and
eight to fourteen inches long, nailed parallel to each other on another strip, so as to leave
a narrow open space between the two parallel strips. Make two or three or more of these, with
the slit or space between the strips of various widths, for large and small moths and butterflies.
Make as many of them, with as various widths of slit, as your catches may demand. Take your
moth by the feet, gently in your fingers, put a long pin down through his body, set the pin
down in the slit of the stretching board, so that the body of the moth will be at the top of
the slit and the wings can be laid out flat on the boards on each side. Have ready narrow slips
of white paper. Lay out one upper wing flat, raising it gently and carefully by using the point
of a pin to draw it with, until the lower edge of this upper wing is nearly at a right angle
with the body. Pin it there temporarily with one pin, carefully, while you draw up the under
wing to a natural position, and pin that. Put a slip of paper over both wings, pinning one
end above the upper and the other below the under wing, thus holding both wings flat on the
stretching board. Take out the pins first put in the wings and let the paper do the holding.
Treat the opposite wings in the same way. Put as many moths or butterflies on your stretching
board as it will hold, and let them remain in a dry room for two, three, or more days, according
to size of moths and dampness of climate. Put them in sunshine or near a stove to hasten drying.
When dry, take off the slips of paper, lift the moth out by the pin through the body, and place
him permanently in your collection.--Wm. C. Prime, in N.Y. Jour. of Commerce.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CLAVI HARP.

The beautiful instrument which we illustrate to-day is the invention of M. Dietz, of Brussels.
His grandfather was one of the first manufacturers of upright pianos, and being struck with
the difficulties and defects of the harp, constructed, in 1810, an instrument à cordes pincées
à clavier--the strings connected with a keyboard.

Many improvements have from time to time been made on this model, which at last arrived at
the perfection exhibited in the newly patented clavi harp. The difficulty of learning to play
the ordinary harp, and the inherent inconveniences of the instrument, limit its use. It is
furnished with catgut strings, which are affected by all the influences of temperature, and
require to be frequently tuned. The necessity of playing the strings with the fingers renders
it difficult to obtain equality in the sounds. It gives only the natural sounds of the diatonic
gamut, and in order to obtain changes of modulation, the pedals must be employed. Harmonics
and shakes are very difficult to execute on the harp, and--last, but not least--it is not provided
with dampers. The external form of the clavi harp resembles that of the harp, and all the cords,
or strings, are visible. The mechanism which produces the sound is put into motion directly
a key is depressed, and acts in a similar manner to the fingers of a harpist; the strings being
pulled, not struck. The clavi harp is free from all the objections inherent in the ordinary
harp. The strings are of a peculiar metal, covered with an insulating material, which has for
its object the production of sounds similar to that obtained from catgut strings, and to prevent
the strings from falling out of tune. The keyboard, exactly like that of a piano, permits of
playing in all keys, without the employment of pedals. The clavi harp has two pedals. The first,
connected with the dampers, permits the playing of sustained sounds, or damping them instantaneously.
The second pedal divides certain strings into two equal parts, to give the harmonic octaves;
by the aid of this pedal the performer can produce ten harmonic sounds simultaneously; on the
ordinary harp only four simultaneous harmonics are possible. An ordinary keyboard being the
intermediary between the performer and the movement of the mechanical "fingers" which pluck
the strings, perfect equality of manipulation is secured. The mechanical "fingers" instantaneously
quit the strings on which they operate, and are ready for further action. The "fingers" are
covered with suitable material, so that their contact with the strings takes place with the
softness necessary to obtain the most beautiful tones possible.

The clavi harp is much lighter than the piano--so that it can easily be moved from room to
room, or taken into an orchestra, by one or two persons--and is of an elegant form, favorable
to artistic decoration. Sufficient will have been said to give a general idea of the new instrument.

It is undeniable that at the present day that beautiful instrument, the harp, is seldom played;
still seldomer well played. This is attributable to the difficulties it presents to pupils.
Its seven pedals must be employed in different ways when notes are to be raised or lowered
a semitone; chromatic passages easy of execution on the piano are almost impracticable on the
harp. The same may be said of the shake; and it is only after long and exclusive devotion to
its study that the harp can become endurable in the hands of an amateur, or the means of furnishing
a professional harpist with a moderate income. It is needless to point out how far, in these
respects, the harp is surpassed by the clavi harp.

Vocalists who accompany themselves on the harp are forced, by the extension of their arms to
reach the lower strings, and by frequent employment of their feet on the pedals, into postures
and movements unfavorable to voice production; but they can accompany themselves with ease
on the clavi harp.

Composers are restricted in the introduction of harp passages in their orchestral scores, owing
to the paucity of harpists. In some cases, composers have written harp passages beyond the
possibility of execution by a single harpist, and the difficulty and cost of providing two
harpists have been inevitable. These difficulties will disappear, and composers may give full
play to their inspirations, when the harp is displaced by the clavi harp.--Building News.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARGAND BURNER.

Argand, a poor Swiss, invented a lamp with a wick fitted into a hollow cylinder, up which a
current of air was permitted to pass, thus giving a supply of oxygen to the interior as well
as the exterior of the circular frame. At first Argand used the lamp without a glass chimney.
One day he was busy in his work room and sitting before the burning lamp. His little brother
was amusing himself by placing a bottomless oil flask over different articles. Suddenly he
placed it upon the flame of the lamp, which instantly shot up the long, circular neck of the
flask with increased brilliancy. It did more, for it flashed into Argand's mind the idea of
the lamp chimney, by which his invention was perfected.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SUBTERRANEAN TEMPLES OF INDIA.

During the last fifteen years Bombay has undergone a complete transformation, and the English
are now making of it one of the prettiest cities that it is possible to see. The environs likewise
have been improved, and thanks to the railways and bungalows (inns), many excursions may now
be easily made, and tourists can thus visit the wonders of India, such as the subterranean
temples of Ajunta, Elephanta, Nassik, etc., without the difficulties of heretofore.

The excavations of Elephanta are very near Bombay, and the trip in the bay by boat to the island
where they are located is a delightful one. The deplorable state in which these temples now
exist, with their broken columns and statues, detracts much from their interest. The temples
of Ajunta, perhaps the most interesting of all, are easier of access, and are situated 250
miles from Bombay and far from the railway station at Pachora, where it is necessary to leave
the cars. Here an ox cart has to be obtained, and thirty miles have to be traveled over roads
that are almost impassable. It takes the oxen fifteen hours to reach the bungalow of Furdapore,
the last village before the temples, and so it is necessary to purchase provisions. In these
wild and most picturesque places, the Hindoos cannot give you a dinner, even of the most primitive
character. It was formerly thought that the subterranean temples of India were of an extraordinary
antiquity.

The Hindoos still say that the gods constructed these works, but of the national history of
the country they are entirely ignorant, and they do not, so to speak, know how to estimate
the value of a century. The researches made by Mr. Jas. Prinsep between 1830 and 1840 have
enlightened the scientific world as to the antiquity of the monuments of India. He succeeded
in deciphering the Buddhist inscriptions that exist in all the north of India beyond the Indus
as far as to the banks of the Bengal. These discoveries opened the way to the work done by
Mr. Turnour on the Buddhist literature of Ceylon, and it was thus that was determined the date
of the birth of Sakya Muni, the founder of Buddhism. He was born 625 B.C. and his death occurred
eighty years later, in 543. It is also certain that Buddhism did not become a true religion
until 300 years after these events, under the reign of Aoska. The first subterranean temples
cannot therefore be of a greater antiquity. Researches that have been made more recently have
in all cases confirmed these different results, and we can now no longer doubt that these temples
have been excavated within a period of fourteen centuries.

Dasaratha, the grandson of Aoska, first excavated the temples known under the name of Milkmaid,
in Behar (Bengal), 200 B.C., and the finishing of the last monument of Ellora, dedicated by
Indradyumna to Indra Subha, occurred during the twelfth century of our era.

We shall speak first of the temples of Pandu Lena, situated in the vicinity of Nassik, near
Bombay. These are less frequented by travelers, and that is why I desired to make a sketch
of them (Fig. 1). The church of Pandu Lena is very ancient. Inscriptions have been found upon
its front, and in the interior on one of the pillars, that teach us that it was excavated by
an inhabitant of Nassik, under the reign of King Krishna, in honor of King Badrakaraka, the
fifth of the dynasty of Sunga, who mounted the throne 129 B.C.

