She continues to write thus: "Some of the women who attend my mother's meeting have never attended
any place of worship, and it is encouraging to hear them speak of reading the Scriptures, which
they have never done before, and of the pleasure they take in going to the House of God, and
in listening to His Word.

"A Jewess, to whom I spoke of the Saviour, said, 'Your religion must be very comforting, when
you have something to rest upon. I would like to go to your church, and hear about your Saviour.'

"I found a family where the mother was sick; the father without work, and four children to
be fed. I obtained assistance for them, and after doing what I could to make them comfortable,
I read a portion of Scripture to them. As the woman lay listening, the father came into the
room and said, 'You are reading the Bible; it is a good book; my children love to hear it;
they learn in the Sabbath-school what will do them good, but the times are hard; I can get
no work, and everything seems dark.' His wife said, 'God has sent us help just when we needed
it the most.' I urged him to trust in our Heavenly Father, and pray to Him; he said, 'I will try.'"

Why not? for

    E'en the hour that darkest seemeth
      Will His changeless goodness prove;
    From the gloom His mercy streameth;
      God is wisdom, God is love. This passage has been the cup of great blessing
to many a benighted soul.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

She writes: "In another family, the kindness shown has led the father (who has also been ill)
to think seriously of religion, and resolve on leading a new life.

"One poor woman, to whom I had given a Bible, said to me, a few days since, that she wanted
to 'pay something for her Bible,' it had been such a comfort to her in her lonely hours. She
said she had never read so much of the Scriptures before, nor found so much comfort from reading
them, as during the last few weeks; and now she wished me take ten cents as part payment; she
had been keeping it for me, and would add more soon, as she wanted to give me fifty cents.
She was living alone; her husband dead; her son, having married recently, had left her, but
gives a little toward her support. She was also made happy by some addition for Thanksgiving.

"My visits among the children of the Sewing-school are also productive of good. One little
girl whom I brought to Sabbath-school for the first time, induced her mother to come to church,
where she was enough pleased to desire to come again. This family have usually spent their
Sabbaths in reading stories in the newspapers, as is the case with many others from which we
have gathered the children, and when they say at parting, 'Do come and see my mother,' I feel
here is a wide field of usefulness opening before us, inviting us to enter in and work for
the Master."

CHAPTER XXIX.

THANKFULNESS TO GOD.

    He is a whole Christ--He is a full Saviour!
      He saves to the uttermost all who believe;
    His arms of compassion are ever extended,
      The contrite and penitent souls to receive.

St. Augustine says: "The Kingdom of Light was from its very commencement assailed by the Kingdom
of Darkness." But, notwithstanding the opposition of Satan, and the strong prejudices of his
ancient people, how encouraging to read the following narrative from her pen:

"I have been able to supply the immediate necessities of some poor families, and it encourages
my heart to see their gratitude for what is done for them, but, above all, for their joy at
receiving the 'Word of God,' and knowing that it was their own. From four persons I have received
payment for the Bibles, who were anxious to receive them, and who read them daily. I have met
with some success among the Jews. A Jewish girl who has been in my Sewing-school is very happy
to be there, and says that now her father does not forbid her to read the Bible or attend Sunday-school.
A young girl who attends the meeting which I hold in my house has joined the church in Allen
Street, and is so much in earnest that she is trying to induce others to follow her example.
I am thankful that my efforts for the young have not been without results."

Why? we ask; because He that spared not His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how will
He not with Him also freely give us all things.

"I have had much encouragement," she continues, "in my labors during the summer. Visiting at
the Hahnemann Hospital, I have become much interested in some of the patients. They ask me
to sit down and talk to them, and I then point them to Jesus as the best Physician for soul
as well as body. I have been kindly received by Roman Catholics, and have loaned Bibles to
some of them, and some have kept them and paid for them.

"During the months of July and August, I have found many sick, in assisting whom I have been
aided by the Flower Mission.

"I see a great change in families where the Bible is being read. One little girl says, 'I read
the Bible every day, and so do my father and mother. Now they do not work on Sunday, as they
used to do, but go to church, and read God's Word.'

"My own church has been closed a part of the summer, but the prayer-meeting has been well attended,
and there has been much interest evinced. A man who was a drunkard for many years, has given
up his bad habits and is now the support and comfort of his family. I gave him a Bible, which
he reads, and he seems to be a truly converted man. I have sold several Bibles, as well as
given several away."

At one time coming in contact with a very serious case of hardship, she wrote concerning it,
"Formerly the mother depended upon the daughter for support, but she has lately been obliged
to stay at home, and take care of her mother; and in consequence of this, they have both suffered,
as they belong to that class who are unwilling to make their wants known.

"I asked if they had attended any place of worship. The mother said she had been a member of
a Protestant church in Troy, but since she came to New York, and her circumstances had changed,
not having clothing to make a decent appearance, she had not been to church. She added: 'I
must say, it was pride, but I could not overcome it. Now I know and feel that I did wrong.'

"She is now more comfortable; for I have been able to get her some little delicacies, which
she suffered greatly from the need of.

"It is a great satisfaction to us, when we meet with so many cases of want and suffering, to
give some relief, however small, but the anxiety and labor that have often to be borne to succeed
in the work is great. I often think that if those who employ us to go forth with the Word of
Life in our hands could see us engaged in our work, giving consolation and encouragement to
the poor and destitute, the sick and dying, and as far as in our power relieving their wants,
they would feel abundantly rewarded for the good and honorable work in which they are engaged.

"Every month I feel more and more the greatness of the work, and the necessity of laboring
with earnestness, in order to compel them to come in, that the Lord's house may be filled,
and that jewels may be gathered for our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ. I have brought a number
of children into Sabbath-schools, and have induced several to attend church, and feel that
my labors have been abundantly blessed, and that during the last month I have been much encouraged.

"I have succeeded in getting five tons of coal for my poor, besides groceries, etc. Have sold
three Bibles, and given one away."

CHAPTER XXX.

LOST, BUT FOUND.

    Love of Christ, amazing love!
      Vast as His eternity;
    Theme of angel choirs above,
      Theme of souls redeemed like me!
    Outward to creation's bound,
      Up to Heaven's serenest height,
    Universal space around,
      Swells the chorus day and night.

Here she writes about a woman whom she visited several years ago, and who attended her meetings:
"I lost sight of her for seven or eight years. She moved away from the city. One day recently
I was sent for by a sick woman; I found it to be Mrs. V., who had returned. I read, prayed,
and visited her until she died, believing in Jesus." Here she reports the conversion of several
others whom she has visited and brought out to religious services.

An unknown Christian lady writes thus: "Mrs. Knowles has great success in her work, reading
God's Word, and leaving the Bible to be read by those whom she visits, when not able to purchase
a Bible; one is given in some instances; even the poorest will pay a small sum. A great change
is noticeable after the Bible is read with real interest--cleaner children, better-dressed
men and women, and a desire to hear the Gospel."

Why this marvellous success? What brought about this personal reformation in the habits and
character of parents and children? There are two reasons for this great change, namely: 1.
Contact with God's Word. 2. Contact with a soul set on fire with the love of Christ. Oh! the
tremendous power there is in divinely implanted affection when it is beautifully blended in
a human heart.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

CONSOLATION AMID DOMESTIC DIFFICULTIES.

When we remember that we are penning for publication only a few stray gleanings from the multiplicity
of instances of conversion, the reader, we trust, will behold the variety of cases recorded,
and we sincerely hope the Christian worker will utilize them for practical purposes.

Some one has said that Paul's favorite illustrations by images are drawn, not from the operations
and uniform phenomena of the natural world, but from the activities and outward exhibition
of human society, from the lives of soldiers, from the lives of slaves, from the market, from
athletic exercises, from agriculture, from architecture.

At this time she again writes: "I visited a family where the mother was a Christian, and the
father a Jew. The father being sick for two years past, and unable to support his wife and
four children, has gone to his own people. The eldest girl is a member of my Sunday-school
class. The mother told me one day, as I was speaking to her of the Bible, that she had not
seen or read one since she was married; 'but,' said she, 'since Amelia has been in your class,
she has repeated the lessons she has learned at home, and I am longing for a Bible.' I gave
her one given me for my Jewish children. She thanked me heartily, and now reads it every day
with her children. One Sunday morning her husband came in to see them, and found her reading
aloud to the children from the Bible. He asked her what she was reading. She told him it was
the Bible, and how she had got it, and that the children went to Sunday-school, and that she
went to church. He was not pleased, but could say nothing, as he does not live with or support
his family. This poor woman was deeply convicted of sin, and was earnestly seeking for forgiveness
and peace, and peace has come to her son through humble trust in the Saviour of sinners. Thus
the Lord is prospering our labors, and the meetings begun in trembling, have been blessed to
some souls."

It seems her source of unalloyed happiness was in watching for souls, at morning, noon, and
night. Her prayers were perfumed with sighs, and cries, and tears for the impenitent. She was
one of those so graphically described by Jeremiah: "They say to their mothers where is corn
and wine? when they swooned as the wounded in the streets of the city, when their soul was
poured out into their mother's bosom. What thing shall I take to witness for thee? what thing
shall I liken to thee, O daughter of Jerusalem? what shall I equal to thee, that I may comfort
thee, O virgin daughter of Zion? for thy breach is great like the sea: who can heal thee."--Lam.
ii. 12-13.

    Long they sat beneath the shadow,
      And the gloom of moral night,
    Waiting only for the dawning
      Of the promised heavenly light.
    But they've heard the glorious Gospel,
      Of salvation full and free,
    Now they read the "Blessed Bible,"
      They are coming, Lord, to Thee.

    Hasten, Lord, the coming morning
      Of the bright, millennial day,--
    And may we who love the Saviour
      Labor to extend His sway,
    Until every ransomed being,
      On the land and on the sea,
    Shall unite in one grand chorus,
      "We are coming, Lord, to Thee."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

THE FORTUNE TELLER.

"During the last two months I have met with several interesting cases. One Jewish woman whom
I visited was always pleased when I told her of my interest for her people. Being poor and
in delicate health, she could do but little for her own support, and I learned had resorted
to telling fortunes. I showed her that this was wrong, and that God would not bless her, as
it did not agree with His Word. She said, 'I have often thought it might be wrong, but I am
now convinced of it; but what shall I do for my living?' I directed her to prayer for guidance,
and assured her that those who put their trust in the Lord would be taken care of. She has
since been to our meeting and requests to have a Bible.

"I visited another woman, whose husband is a Catholic. Her three children are in my Sunday-school
class, and I am much interested in them. The mother came to the German church, and I gave her
a German Bible, as she never had one. Calling one day, I found her in great trouble. She said:
'Oh, Mrs. Knowles, I have been praying for you, and the Lord has sent you. I read and prayed
with her, directing her to the Friend of sinners for peace. I think she became a true Christian,
and soon she wished to unite with the church. Her husband, however, opposed it, and threatened
to take away the children from her. He did so, and sent them to the Catholic Sunday-school.
But the seed is sown in their young hearts, and they say to their mother, 'We will never turn
to the Catholics.'" But to do good, and to communicate, forget not; for with such sacrifices
God is well pleased."

She adds: "During these months I have met with much poverty and sickness. One would almost
think it would diminish at this season, but, on the contrary, it is rather worse. I met with
a family who had been in the country but two months. The father was a salesman in Germany,
and can get no employment in this country. They had nothing to eat in their house, but the
Lord opened a way, so that something was provided for them. I read the Scriptures and prayed
with them, and the wife expressed a longing to go to a German church. I took her to church,
and gave her a Bible."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

A JEWESS FINDS THE MESSIAH.

"A poor Jewess, whose husband has been in the Insane Asylum for nearly two years, finds it
hard to support her family by peddling. Calling one day, I found her going out without any
shoes on her feet, and her health very poor. I bought her a pair of shoes, for which she was
very thankful, and pointed her to Christ as her true friend in time of need. She reads the
Bible, and believes He is the Messiah."

"Another Roman Catholic woman, whom I have been visiting for some time, continues to attend
church regularly."

CHAPTER XXXI.

SEA-SIDE EXCURSIONS FOR MOTHERS AND CHILDREN.

    Sure he, to whom, of mind or hand belongs
      Some craft that doth uplift the thought of men
      Above the mold, and bring to human ken
    The joys of radiance, air and clear bird-songs;
      So that the brow, o'er moist with sullen toil,
    May catch a breeze from far-off Paradise;
    So that the soul may, for a moment, rise
      Up from the stoop and cramp of daily moil--
    May own his gift Divine! as sure may trace
      Its Source, as that of waters kind hands hold
    To thirsty lips; nor need he mourn (since grace
      Of his hath such refreshment wrought) if gold
    Be scant; to him hath richer boon been given
    An earth-bowed head to raise the nearer heaven.

There is no sight more truly gladdening to the heart of the philanthropist than to behold the
large barges, built after the model of Noah's Ark, gliding swiftly through the beautiful waters
of New York Bay, heavily laden with the news-boys, working-girls, or poor mothers and children
of the city. Thanks to the New York Press, and the contributors to the Fresh Air Fund, for
thus giving the multitudes of children, that are thickly huddled together in our tenement-houses,
an opportunity of inhaling pure air.

One of the pioneers in this good work was the New York Times. In 1872, that paper started the
"Times' Excursion for Poor Children;" ay, and for poor adults, too. The public nobly responded
to the Times' appeal, sending in about $20,000. During the sweltering summer of that year,
the Times' people carried to shady groves and seasides tens of thousands of children who, for
the first time, saw running streams and green fields. No one can estimate the good done, the
lives saved, and the hours of happiness secured to young and old who have so few happy hours.
Not the least was that of softening hearts and opening purses.

In this noble work we find our deceased friend earnestly engaged instead of taking a vacation
in the hot summer months. In her diary we find the following concerning one of these summer
seasons:

    "It has been a great privilege, during the summer months, to be
    able to make so many poor mother's happy, by taking them and their
    children to the sea-side for bathing and country air. There has
    been much sickness in the tenement-houses. It is, indeed,
    distressing often to see two sick in one bed, the others nearly
    ready to be there, and the poor mothers, with but little means,
    scarcely able to do their work and take care of the sick ones.

    "It is then a happiness to obtain for them a little nourishment,
    and to give them words of sympathy and encouragement. Many are
    Roman Catholics, who seem surprised that I should take any interest
    in them, as they said it was more than their own people will do.

    "A poor woman whom I visited, said: 'I will never again think that
    Protestants cannot be saved, as I have been taught; and since I
    have read the Bible, I intend to go to a Protestant church and hear
    for myself.'

    "The Catholics say to me, 'How different your prayers are from
    ours. Why do you not pray to the Blessed Virgin?' I tell them that
    we only pray to the Lord Jesus Christ, as He is the only Saviour.
    While visiting lately in some wretched houses of infamy and talking
    to the poor women, they would shed tears, and say that they would
    like to live different lives, but it is so hard to begin to do
    better. It is surprising to see with what attention they listen to
    the words of Scripture and promise to read the Bible themselves."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

A WONDERFUL WORK.

Still continuing the record of her work, she writes: "During last month I made two hundred
and fifty visits, read the Scriptures as often as I had the opportunity; have given two Bibles
to persons who were too poor to pay for them, and sold one.

"Several Roman Catholic women have asked for Bibles, and are reading them with pleasure. One
woman, whose husband called her a 'turn-coat,' said she did not care for that, but that nothing
should persuade her to give up her Bible.

"I have induced several persons to attend church, and have taken children to the Sabbath-school,
thus trying to sow the seed, and looking to God for His blessing.

"A poor man, ill with consumption, is one whom I visit often. I have aided his family with
coal, and also in buying food and nourishment for himself. He reads a Bible that I gave him
every day, and when his children come from school he gets them to read to him. He says: 'If
I had been a better man; had read my Bible and taken care of my health, I might have been different,
but now I am trusting in the Lord that He will forgive and accept me, and that is my only hope.
I tell my wife that when I am gone she must never give up the Bible, but read it every day
with her children.'"

We must ever remember, dear reader, that the unfolding of the Gospel of Christ is the power
of God unto salvation to everyone who believeth. What a tremendous power was manifested by
the preaching of the Gospel to the savages of North America, in 1743. Mr. Brainerd, in his
journal, gives an instance of the effects which followed the preaching of the Word of God.
"There was much concern," says he, "among them while I was discoursing publicly; but afterward,
when I spoke to one and another whom I perceived more particularly under concern, the power
of God seemed to descend upon the assembly, 'like a mighty rushing wind,' and with an astonishing
energy bore down all before it.

"I stood amazed at the influence that seized upon the audience almost universally. Almost all
persons of all ages, were bowed down together. Old men and women, who had been drunken wretches
for many years, and some little children, not more than six or seven years of age, appeared
in distress for their souls, as well as persons of middle age. These were almost universally
praying and crying for mercy in every part of the house, and many out of doors, and numbers
could neither go nor stand; their concern was so great, each for himself, that none seemed
to take any notice of those about them, but each prayed for himself. Methought this had a near
resemblance to the day of God's power, mentioned Josh. x. 14; for I must say, I never saw any
day like it in all respects; it was a day wherein the Lord did much to destroy the kingdom
of darkness among this people." A church was soon afterward gathered among these poor pagans;
and such was the change effected among them, that many exclaimed with astonishment, "What hath
God wrought?"

He spent whole days in fasting and prayer, that God would prepare him for his great work; and,
indeed, throughout his whole life he was truly a "man of prayer," lifting up his heart to God
on all occasions, frequently spending whole days in prayer and meditation in the fields and
woods desiring holiness of heart far above every other object.

Mr. Brainerd was sent by the Society for the Propagation of Christian Knowledge to the Indians
at Kaunaumeek, a place in the woods between Stockbridge and Albany. In this lonely place he
continued and endured many hardships and privations.

CHAPTER XXXII.

THE INTEMPERATE WIFE.

    If you cannot give your thousands,
      You can give the widow's mite,
    And the least you give for Jesus
      Will be precious in His sight.

In March, 1880, she writes: "I have had much encouragement in my work during the past month.
In a family where I had visited a long time, the mother was much addicted to intemperance.
On calling one day, I saw the husband, who said he was glad I had come in, for he had resolved
to leave his wife; he said he could endure his life with her no longer--he would go his way,
and she must go hers. She was much distressed, and I once more entreated her to give up the
intoxicating cup and be a good wife and mother. I then engaged in prayer, beseeching the Lord
to enable her to resist this dreadful appetite. Her husband stood by and said:

"'Now, Mary, you have your choice: either to follow the advice of this kind friend, or to separate
from me forever.'

"She then and there made her decision, and, laying her hand on the Bible, pledged herself not
to touch or taste the poison, and signed a paper to that effect. Since then, she has attended
our meetings, and says she is happier than she has ever been.

"Some persons to whom I have given the Bible did not seem to care to read it, but have now
begun to do so, and encourage their children to read to them. One man tells me:

"'I am scarce five minutes in the house before my little girl begins to read to me, and it
does me good.'

"A man and his wife who have attended church this winter, will soon confess Christ. They have
suffered much this season, as the father has had but little work; but I have been able to give
them some assistance. The mother said she was thankful to the Lord for all that had been done
for them, to bring them through their difficulties--but, above all, that she and her husband
had found rest in Jesus as their Saviour and their friend."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

WARMLY WELCOMED BY ALL DENOMINATIONS.

    "March, 1881.--During this month I have made many visits among
    Jews and Romanists. Some who formerly opposed me are now anxious to
    hear me read and pray, and urge me to come to see them often.
    Several Roman Catholic families have asked for the Bible; and I have
    given several copies of the New Testament, which they value very
    highly, as well for themselves as for their children, whom they are
    anxious should read and learn its sacred truths. One woman, whose
    children had been taught verses from the New Testament, gave me
    twenty-five cents to get her a Bible, saying she wondered why their
    clergy forbid them reading it.

    "The woman mentioned before as being intemperate seems now truly
    reformed. She attends our meetings with her boy, and she and her
    husband once more live happily together.

    "My meeting for young girls continues with much encouragement. They
    seem to take delight in reading the Scriptures, and in singing
    hymns of praise. They spend the hour in sewing and reading aloud,
    and they are greatly improved in deportment and character. The
    little Jewish girl, to whom I gave a Testament, is never absent
    from this meeting or from the Sunday-school."

What a deplorable sight--an intemperate mother! What a soul-ruinous example to a daughter!
When we consider the relation between the mother and the child, how great are the maternal
responsibilities. The mother ought to attract the attention of the child by her love. Chilled
by the sin of intemperance, how many, alas! drag down their daughters to infamy and a life
of shame.

But, oh, what a change is wrought in this household after the dramatic interview, when the
husband threatens to leave his wife forever unless she abandons her cups. What joy enters that
family circle after the mother's transformation. Surely this revolution in her character was
not the work either of the missionary or the person herself. It is not by works of righteousness
which we have done, but according to His mercy He saves us.

How sweetly Dr. Horace Bonar sings in this connection:

    Thy works, not mine, O Christ,
      Speak gladness to this heart;
    They tell me all is done;
      They bid my fear depart.
        To whom, save thee,
          Who can alone
          For sin atone,
        Lord, shall I flee?

When we contrast the previous picture with the closing paragraph of this last account in her
diary, we behold the sudden change from sadness to sunshine.

She says, "The young girls seem to take delight in reading the Scriptures, and in singing hymns
of praise." This is the new song put into the mouth of the Christian at the hour of conversion:
"Happy day, when Jesus washed my sins away."

CHAPTER XXXIII.

HER LOVE OF CHILDREN AND OF PRAYING.

    He loves me now, oh, blessed thought,
    He loved me when I knew Him not,
    And with His blood my pardon bought,
      On Calvary He died for me;
    Then with such love my heart to cheer,
    How can I doubt or have one fear,
    Or ever think the days are drear,
    With Jesus near, with Jesus near.

In 1884 she writes: "Ninety-six visits during the last month, and seven children taken to the
Sunday-school. I am everywhere received with kindness, and especially by the children, through
whom I hope to reach the parents' hearts. I have disposed of several Bibles, for which I have
been paid; and I find there is nothing like reading some verses of Scripture to excite the
desire to possess the Book of God. I have an interesting class of girls in my own house who
study passages of Scripture every week, and by their example and influence their parents have
been led to attend church and give their hearts to God."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

Oh, how few there are who would be so kind-hearted as this woman to open their own house to
impart spiritual instruction to others. We are forcibly reminded by this gathering of girls
to study God's Word, of a graphic scene in the Acts of the Apostles: We read that, "On the
Sabbath we went out of the city by a river side, where prayer was wont to be made; and we sat
down, and spake unto the women which resorted thither. And she constrained us."--Acts xvi. 13-15.

We see from the above account of her work the multiplicity of her avocations: Tract-distribution,
visiting and caring for the sick, teaching the young, not only out of God's Book, but instructing
them how to discharge domestic duties.

    Never tired, never weary,
      In what she found to do--
    Ever winsome, always cheery,
      She knew but love for you!

    Humble, patient, kindly, sincere,
      She loved the Master well;
    Always trying, unknown to fear,
      She would His story tell!

She continues: "A short time since, on entering a house, the woman who opened the door asked
if I was a missionary. When I said 'Yes,' she said, 'The Lord has answered my prayer. I prayed
that He would send one to me to read the Bible and pray with me.' Before, when she had been
visited, she would hide away to avoid the visitor, but now she desires to be a Christian, and
wishes some one to read and pray with her often. She is very poor, but is now seeking the true
riches. One who had been very ill, but had recovered, gladly received a Bible, for which, though
she is very poor, she gave me fifty cents. I have met with much encouragement in the Sabbath-school
and sewing-school. Many mothers are, through their children, interested in religion, and come
gladly to the mothers' meetings, and my earnest prayer is that the Lord will help me in the
future as He has done in the past."

Her prayerful spirit was marvellous. This was the reason why she was able to impart such comfort
and encouragement to others.

I called recently in the suburbs of the City of Brooklyn to see a member of the Allen Street
Church, and, after reading God's Word and prayer, our conversation turned to a beautiful portrait
that hung over the mantel-piece. The lady remarked, "That is the picture of my departed sister,
who died in New York. She was faithfully visited during her sickness by Mrs. Knowles." She
continued, "I like to think of her, because she used to tell me after she was gone, 'I pray
for you by name every day.'" Perhaps that is the reason why she comes now so many miles through
the long, dreary, stormy winter months, to teach a class in the Allen Street Sabbath-school,
and some of the scholars are Hebrew children. This person for whom she prayed never misses
any of the services at the church. For I know this, that after my departure shall grievous
wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock."

This is the injunction of the Apostle Paul to the elders at Ephesus, but it is exceedingly
appropriate to all who are engaged in missionary work of any kind, and it cannot be faithfully
complied with unless there is pastoral work performed from house to house. Who is sufficient
for these things?

During February and March, 1885, she again writes: "During the last two months I have been
engaged as usual in reading the Scriptures from house to house, and wherever I have visited
have been allowed to do so, with very few exceptions. Visiting lately in a tenement house,
a woman came out, telling me that I would never go to Heaven, and using other insulting language.
I only said, 'Poor woman, I pity you.' A Catholic woman, who heard her, asked me into her room,
took me by the hand, and with tears in her eyes expressed her sorrow that I should be treated
so ill. I told her it did not harm me as much it did themselves. I then asked if I might pray
with them, and when we arose from prayers several of those present were in tears. 'How can
you pray for one who has abused you so?' said they. I replied that Jesus prayed for His enemies,
and we must imitate His example. One of these women came to our mothers' meeting, and asked
me for a Bible, and promises to read it." And they parted his raiment, and cast lots."

The fearful drama enacted on Golgotha excites our wonder when we behold the amazing love of
Jesus, in thus praying for His persecutors. How true it is that He was clothed with the mock
robes of royalty, that we might be clad in His justifying righteousness; crowned with the crown
of thorns, that we might wear a crown of glory.

    Flow on, thou stream; oh, ceaseless flow,
    Till every child of sin and woe
    Hath plunged beneath thy cleansing tide,
    And found the Saviour precious.

I want to say here, that I visited a family by request a few evenings since in the upper part
of New York City. During our religious conversation I asked the mother of the family how she
was led to Christ. Her husband, daughters, and sons were all seated around her at the time,
a happy family circle. "Well," she replied, "about twenty-three years ago, when my children
were little, Mrs. Knowles met me on the street, coming from the store. She said, 'Excuse me,
lady, will you accept a tract?' I answered yes. 'Will you read it,' she inquired, 'if I give
you one?' I promised I would. She further asked me, 'Have you any children?' 'Yes.' 'Do they
go to Sabbath-school?' 'No.' 'Will you send them if I call for them next Lord's Day morning?'
'Yes.' She called the following Sabbath, and asked if the children were ready. 'They are all
ready,' I said, 'but one, and her shoes are not good enough; but wait and I will go out and
buy a new pair.' 'Oh,' said Mrs. Knowles, 'never mind buying shoes to-day, I will call next
Sabbath for them.' I did not know the reason then why she would not allow me to get the shoes,
but I know now. She did not wish me to break the holy Sabbath day. Then she persuaded me to
attend church, until I found Jesus as my Saviour. I was in the habit of going to her with all
my trouble, and she would say, 'Oh, well, never mind, don't tell anyone but your Heavenly Father
about it.'"

CHAPTER XXXIV.

CONVERSION OF CHILDREN.

    We are so helpless, Lord,
      Thou art all power and might;
    Our path is often drear,
      Be thou our light.
    We have no hope but thee;
      Oh, leave us not alone,
    Till life's brief day is o'er,
      Still guard thine own.

Her joy in bringing children to the Sabbath-school was great, but when she led them to Christ
it was sublime. Why should she not be interested in their early conversion, when Jesus said,
"Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the Kingdom
of Heaven." I desire to state here, that when I was a boy, about nine years of age, I attended
a prayer-meeting between the morning and afternoon services, led by an elder of the Relief
U.P. Church, Greenock, and was so deeply impressed with Divine truth that I gathered my playmates
together, and invited them to a meeting of my own across the burn at the foot of grandfather's
garden, near Dr. McCulloch's established church, where we boys read God's Word in turn sang
the sweet psalms of David, and offered prayer.

Rev. E. P. Hammond is doing a grand work among children at the present time in New York. I
assisted in his meetings, and found a goodly number of children inquiring after Jesus, and
one afternoon there were a dozen young men and women rejoicing in their sins forgiven, who
had signed the covenant.

The following letter will speak for itself regarding Mr. Hammond's work here in this city among
children, many of whom were brought to Christ:

    "NEW YORK CITY, March 3, 1887.

    "DEAR BROTHER YOUNG: I am engaged, night and day, holding meetings
    here, I wish you could come up and attend some of the services; I
    thank you for all your kind words. I am to be to-morrow at the
    prayer-meeting as per bill. If you can be there I shall be glad to
    see you.

    "One hundred and twenty here, gave their names to us yesterday,
    saying they had been converted in these meetings (for the most
    part). To-morrow night we go to Carle Hall. It will hold, perhaps,
    three or four thousand. Pray for us.

    "Yours in Jesus,

    "E. P. HAMMOND."

The afternoon I visited the scene of his labors, he presented me with a copy of his work entitled,
"The Conversion of the Children," in which I have found a very encouraging letter to workers
among the little ones. I use it here to illustrate the power of Divine grace, and to show that
wherever the effort is put forth to save the children, God blesses it.

The following letter will testify also to the power of the Gospel. It is the production of
one whom God has been graciously pleased to bless in a marvellous manner among the young.

    "GLASGOW, SCOTLAND, September, 18, 1877.

    "MY DEAR MR. HAMMOND: We oftentimes remember you, though few letters
    have passed between us. My daughters and myself will never forget
    your visit and the time of blessing then, and they, as well as
    myself, send you most hearty salutations.

    "Dear brother, my thoughts on the subject of the conversion of
    children are the same as when I wrote that tract you refer to.[5] I
    think I agreed with you in almost every thing but one, viz.,
    expressing publicly an opinion on cases. It seems to me that we
    should be cautious in so doing; for children themselves mistake
    feeling for faith; how easy, then, for us who do not know the
    heart, to mistake in them a manifestation of feeling for evidence of
    faith.

    "But in the awakening which took place under your labors here, and
    in awakenings that have been given us since, the cases of young
    people have been as entirely satisfactory as any cases we have had.
    If conversion be God's work, in which the Holy Spirit reveals
    Christ to the soul, surely His work can take place in children as
    really as in the old; for it is the young soul meeting with Christ
    in the one case and the adult in the other.

    "One day, about the time, or perhaps after the time, you were among
    us, in the vestry of my church, an old Christian woman, who had
    watched the work going on, came to me and said, 'Sir, you will find
    many people speaking lightly of the young who come to Christ, as if
    there was nothing but feeling in their case; but never mind what
    these people say. I was converted in the days of Dr. Kidd, of
    Aberdeen, when I was but a child, and two others of my age were
    converted at the same time; and we have all three gone on to this
    day, following the Lamb.'

    "The Lord blesses you amazingly. Surely you will need to 'walk
    circumspectly,' 'sober, vigilant,' for Satan will not fail to watch
    you, and seek to injure you, that he may injure God's work through
    you. If the way be opened for your revisiting Scotland, many among
    us shall rejoice.

    "Meanwhile, we pray for you, and will not cease. Pray for us still,
    dear brother.

    "Yours truly, in Him 'Whose we are and whom we serve,'

   "ANDREW A. BONAR."

      [5] The Conversion of Children, by Dr. A. A. Bonar.

But what makes us to differ from each other? Surely it is simply the presence and power of
the Holy Spirit in our heart. Whether then it be I or they, so we preach, and so ye believed."

CHAPTER XXXV.

ASLEEP IN JESUS.[6]

    Asleep in Jesus; blessed sleep,
      From which none ever wakes to weep,
    A calm and undisturbed repose,
      Unbroken by the last of foes.

"For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain."--Philippians i. 21.

One week ago to-day, and at this hour, we stood in this historic church over the precious remains
of our dear, departed Elder, James Knowles, so kind, so gentle, so affectionate, so humble,
and so meek in his manners that we greatly miss him in our work for the blessed Master. Ah!
little did we then think that we were to be so speedily gathered together to pay the last tribute
of respect to the memory of his faithful and loving wife. But God's ways are not our ways,
nor His thoughts as our thoughts. How inexplicable and profoundly mysterious are His providential
arrangements. It hath pleased our kind heavenly Father to say to our sainted sister, "It is
enough, come up higher." She also is at rest with her Saviour and her husband, to whom she
was so devotedly attached. She was, indeed, a virtuous wife and loving mother.

    "The race appointed she has run,
    The combat's o'er, the prize is won."

      [6] The substance of a sermon preached by the Rev. Duncan McNeill
      Young, in the Allen Street Presbyterian Church, New York,
      November 1, 1886, on the occasion of the death of Mrs. James
      Knowles, a city missionary who triumphantly departed this life on
      October 30, 1886, in the seventy fifth year of her age.

How blessed the change! How rich the reward! How safe from all sin and sorrow! In yonder "land
of pure delight where saints immortal reign." What a meeting! What a greeting takes place at
the hour of dissolution! How pleasing the contemplation. How inspiring to think of our noble
ancestors; our holy ministers and teachers; our fathers and mothers who led us by the hand
to the house of God on the Sabbath, who early taught us to lisp the ever precious name of Jesus;
who are to-day singing the song of Moses and the Lamb. Let us thank God at this solemn hour,
even amid blinding tears, for pious, praying parents.

Oh, that the Holy Spirit of God may touch our hearts to-day; that we may more fully realize
the greatness and importance of our work, and that we may understand that this second great
loss to this church is the voice of the God of Israel calling us, by the solemn dispensations
of His providence, to be more zealous in our Saviour's cause. Clarify our vision just now,
O Thou Divine Enlightener, that we may see light in Thy light.

I truly believe my theme to-day is a gift from the Lord, the God of Abraham, and is peculiarly
appropriate for this solemn scene, and adapted to the circumstances and special wants of this
church and congregation. "Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of His saints." The
text, I may add, has been graphically illustrated in the life and labors, as well as in the
death of her who now lies before us in that beautiful casket, covered with so many rich and
fragrant flowers, the gifts of dearly beloved friends.

While I do not believe in eulogizing the dead, yet, nevertheless, I think, nay, I experimentally
know, that great good is derived from reflection upon the lives of the great, the pure, and
the noble ones who are beyond the flood. Nothing stimulates me so much to increased activity
and aggressiveness in Christian work as the thought of the numerous servants of the Most High
God now in heaven:

    "How bright those glorious spirits shine,
      Whence all their white array?
    How came they to the blissful seats
      Of everlasting day?"--"Par." lxvi. 1.

Paul, who uttered the words of our text, was passing through great suffering when he wrote
this epistle to the Church which he planted at Philippi. He was at this time a prisoner for
Christ in the palace of the imperial city of Rome: for he declares, "That the things that happened
unto me, have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the Gospel; so that," he adds, "my
bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places."

There are just two thoughts that we want to try and develop this afternoon, namely, that conformity
to the likeness of Christ in life brings glorious gain to the Christian at death. Or, in the
words of the great Apostle of the Gentiles, "For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain."

"That man," says the Hebrew bard, "hath perfect blessedness, who not only refraineth from walking
astray, but who delights in the Law of the Lord." Lex rex, was his motto--"The Law is King!"
For the Master has said: "Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am
not come to destroy, but to fulfil." "The city set on a hill cannot be hid."

The true Christian, then, beholds the humility and majesty of Christ in defining His and our
relation to the law that regulates daily life. The Gospel of the blessed God and the law conjointly
elevates and spiritualizes humanity. The law is our school-master to lead us to Christ, hence
Paul says, "To be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.

Our loved one's life was emphatically a life of consecration. It was a life strictly devoted
to the cause of her dear Redeemer. "For her to live was Christ, hence to die was gain." We
all know that to consecrate is to set apart for holy service. Aaron of old was thus unreservedly
laid upon the altar as a living sacrifice for Jehovah. A person thus set apart receives the
unction of the Holy One. It was beautifully symbolized under the mosaical dispensation.

Moses took the anointing oil and poured it upon the head of Aaron, in order that he might be
sanctified and set apart for the service of God. It is then we receive the blessed baptism
of the Holy Spirit, and are made meet for the Master's use. None can rightly live for Christ
until they receive this rich and inestimable blessing. "At that time we are sealed with the
Holy Spirit of promise."

Among the personal property of Sister Knowles were found some crumbs which fell from the Master's
table in the form of forget-me-nots of the Word of God, by Dr. McDuff, author of "Morning and
Night Watches." Valuable little works which I would earnestly recommend, and which I have endeavored
to put into the hands of many young disciples in my various fields of labor. I will quote a
few of the forget-me-nots, as they are very comforting in these hours of sorrow and separation.
10. 4.

Our dear Sister Knowles corroborated the truthfulness of the above passages by her last dying
words, the last she ever uttered upon earth. "Once I was young, now I am old, and have never
been forsaken." This divine blessing our dear sister pre-eminently possessed.

This was the reason why Christ, our ever adorable Redeemer and Daysman was continually about
His Father's business.

The presence here to-day, in a body, of the "New York Female Bible Readers' Society," out of
respect to the memory of the departed, is a conclusive evidence of the fact that they recognized
her sterling qualities, and her heroic missionary spirit among the fallen sons and daughters
of Adam in the lower part of this great city. They fully realize that this church and community
have suffered a severe loss in her removal, and their presence, together with so many elders,
and ministers, deacons, and Sabbath-school workers, give proof that her life, for over a quarter
of a century, during which she incessantly toiled for Christ, were years of holy and unremitting
industry, and holy consecration in the service of Him whose whole life was one of self-sacrifice
and self-abnegation. "For He came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give His
life a ransom for many."

She was like Christ in this respect. Emptied of self, and was found like Mary of old sitting
at the feet of Jesus, and hearing His word.

God has wisely ordained that souls are to be saved through human instrumentality, especially
through those whose hearts are in the work. He hath put the treasure in the earthen vessel
that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of man. Who can estimate the value of
a holy missionary woman's work in this world of sin and sorrow?

Through the power of an indwelling spirit, who can tell of the many broken hearts healed by
the application of the Balm of Gilead. Many poor Satan-bound souls have had their shackles
severed, and joyously set at liberty by pointing them to the only Redeemer of God's elect,
who by His great atoning work hath paid for them the ransom price; and many to-day are singing
the song of Redeeming love above, who were led to put their trust in the blessed Jesus by her
prayers and religious instruction. Many a poor Jew, and Jewess, and Roman Catholic, and Formalist,
and Infidel, and swearer, and Sabbath-breaker, were pointed by her to the Lamb of God who taketh
away the sin of the world. She ever displayed great sagacity in every kind of work. She will
be greatly missed in the Tenth Ward of this city.

God grant that as the spirit of Elijah did rest on Elisha as he was taken up into Heaven, even
so may her mantle fall on us who are left behind. Let us

    "With zeal like hers inspired,
      Begin the Christian race;
    And freed from each encumbering weight,
      Her holy footsteps trace."

Krummacher, of Elberfeld, in the valley of Barmen, Prussia, said, "That Elisha on inheriting
this mantle is henceforth called to take the place of his great Master, and to carry on His
work." This singular legacy was therefore very significant to Elisha. The mantle came flying
toward him heavily laden, but with the commission he received was connected the encouraging
circumstance that it came accompanied with such a precious memorial of his paternal Master.
It was no longer the robe of his redoubted reformer, but the robe of a blessed heir of Heaven,
borne thither on the wings of the cherubin. This circumstance would tend to refresh his spirit
in his arduous work; and, at the same time as the messenger of peace, who was to announce to
the house of Israel, like the rainbow after the storm, Jehovah's good-will toward men. Oh,
that the remembrance of our ancestors, the great, and the good, and the holy ones who have
gone before would inspire us to go and do likewise!

I remember once standing in the cemetery of Stirling and gazing upon the monument of two Christian
sisters who suffered martyrdom for Christ, and as I read the inscription on the tombstone,
I thought of how much we were indebted to those who have borne the burden and heat of the day.
The elder and younger sister are exquisitely sculptured, seated together with an open Bible
on their laps, and a lamb by their side, while an angel is standing behind them gazing intently
on the scene. Who can tell but the departed one gazed upon this very scene in the days of her
sunny childhood, for the Bible was her daily delight.

Ah! dear friends, are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister to them who are
heirs of salvation? 13.

A French gentleman, a Roman Catholic, who lived in the same house as sister Knowles for several
years, told me that he never met a woman so humble and straightforward as she was in all her
deportment.

What was the secret of her power in eliciting this outside testimony? She had companionship
with Jesus.

The holy McCheyne, of St. Peter's, Dundee, Scotland, says, concerning those who walk with Christ
on earth, "That they shall walk with Christ in white, for they are worthy.... Never forget,
dear brethren, that you are to walk with Christ. This walk expresses the most real intimacy
with Him. You know it is a mark of real intimacy to admit one to walk with us in our solitary
rambles. Oh, walk with Him now; walk here with Him, and you shall soon put your head where
John put his."

She cultivated a firm and unstaggering confidence in the continued presence of the Holy Spirit
in her heart. McCheyne's directions to his flock was, "Pray for the Holy Spirit to uphold you,
if sensible of your weakness; then lean upon this proved Comforter.... Pray much for this Comforter
that He may enlighten your mind, that He may fill your hearts. Oh, pray for the Spirit of God,
for there is no other way of walking to heaven but by the Spirit. Let Him lead you. My dear
brethren, in this way, and in this way alone, will you not defile your garments." She had faith
in the power of the Comforter, or helper.

In the midst of many privations, and sometimes when the week's earnings of her husband was
small, and he would say to her on the Saturday evening, "I have not much money for you to-night,"
she would cheerfully reply: "Never mind dearest, the Lord will provide." Jehovah-jireh! was
her watchword all through her life. She would remark, "That would go further to them with God's
blessing, than three times as much without His blessing."

Earthly comforts and pleasures might fail, but the joys that spring from personal piety and
firm faith in the Comforter's presence failed her never. 17-19.

She evidently found in the mighty God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, an inexhaustible source
of strength and comfort and consolation through her child-like trust in the immutable promise,
"I will never leave thee nor forsake thee."

Conformity to the character of Christ was an essential element in her every-day life. She had
cares, difficulties, and trials, but she cast them all upon the great burden-bearer, hence
prevailing prayer was ever her chief delight. It is no misplaced and extravagant exaggeration
to say that she breathed the very atmosphere of prayer. This is the wisest resource at all
times. Like Elijah on the summit of Mount Carmel, where all is peaceful and solitary, alone
with God, she made her requests known unto Him. 6-7.

Oh, who can fully estimate the excellency of a devotional temperament? What evils we are delivered
from! What mercies we receive! What gladness of heart! What light is imparted! What strength
God bestows! For, has He not promised, "Ask, and ye shall receive?" She had no doubts concerning
the faithfulness of her Father to answer prayer. It was through her importunate pleadings at
the throne of grace that her only son, when quite young, was led to see his need of Jesus.
And what joy was brought into the hearts of those parents when, at the return of the father
from the prayer-meeting, they found their child on his knees crying for God to have mercy on
his soul. Over such scenes as this the holy angels delight to bend their bright wings and make
joyous music in heaven. (See Luke xv. 10.)

On one occasion during the fratricidal war in this country, when her boy was fighting before
Richmond, some one brought her word that he was mortally wounded on the battle-field, for they
had seen his name in the newspapers, she calmly and trustfully replied: "Not my son; for I
have made him the subject of earnest prayer, that his young life may be guarded by God while
in his country's battles for continued liberty and independence." She recognized the truth
that piety and patriotism are inseparably connected.

She seemed to realize that the Saviour was always at her side. She walked by faith and not
by sight. She understood the distinction between the constituents of faith and the consequences
of faith. Chalmers wisely remarks--that the gratitude, the love, the disposition toward new
obedience; these are not the ingredients of faith; they are but the effects of it. Observe
what follows by making them the ingredients. By faith we are said to be justified; but if our
piety toward God, or our desire to conform to His law, or any moral characteristic whatever,
shall be regarded as parts and constituents of this faith; then, under the consciousness of
our sad deficiency, we shall never attain to the solid peace of one who rejoices in a firm
sense of his acceptance with God. But reduce faith to its simplicity, take it in the obvious
and uncompounded sense which you attach to the mere act of believing, regard it as purely giving
credit to God's testimony, when he sets forth Christ as a propitiation for our sin, and invites
one and all in the world to cast upon Him the burden of their reliance, and then see how, by
immediate transition, one might enter into peace, and become a confiding, tranquillized, and
happy creature, simply because convinced that the most powerful of beings, whom he aforetime
regarded as an enemy and an avenger is pacified toward him, and now makes him a free proffer
of fellowship and forgiveness. It is of the greatest importance to the secure and perfect establishment
of a believer's peace, that it should be a matter of believing, and believing only. It is also
an imperative necessity that the comfort and confidence should spring from the proper object
of belief, which is the sureness of God's own testimony, and not from the consciousness of
love or gratitude, or any moral quality in ourselves!

I heard Dr. Andrew Bonar, while preaching in Philadelphia, during a visit to this country,
tell about a dying elder who was asked by friends who clustered around his couch, "How do you
feel, now that the hour of your departure has come, and you hear the voice that calls you home?
Have you still joy and peace?"

"Oh," he said, "I am not thinking about joy or peace, or my feelings. I am not thinking about
myself at all. I am just lying here thinking about Christ. I am thinking about what He has
done and suffered for me; and what He is doing for me in heaven. Yes, He is 'a hiding place
from the wind.'

    "'Rock of ages cleft for me,
    Let me hide myself in thee.'

"That is what we have to do in life and in death. Where can we find rest and refuge in a dying
hour, but by thinking upon and trusting in Him who is 'the shadow of a great rock in a weary
land?'"

Our peace, our joy, our hope, our all in life and in death, are the results of confidence in
Christ. Her trust was not in this vain and transitory world, though smiling and fair, she trusted
not His joy, for sorrow was there. Her faith had found an anchor--a sure abiding home; she
had a strong consolation because she had fled for refuge and had laid hold of the hope set
before her in the Gospel. Hence she continually enjoyed four precious elements of spiritual
life and Christian experience; viz., Union with God, Communion with Christ, Pure Fellowship
with the Saints, and Constant Cleansing by the peace-speaking blood of Jesus--"That blood which
speaketh better things than the blood of Abel."

The application to your hearts of the blood of Jesus by the Holy Spirit is like the dew upon
the new mown grass.

Amid the great rush and roar of business, where men are pressing against each other on the
busy streets, in the race for gold, her mind was constantly occupied with thoughts relative
to the wants and woes of the sick and the dying. While others were daily seeking their own,
not the things of Christ, she was found bringing children to the Sabbath-school--reaching out
to the hearts of the parents through the little ones--bringing the blessed Bible to the bosoms
of the homes which had none; circulating tracts and religious literature; visiting sad scenes
of distressing spiritual and domestic destitution. And whatsoever her hands found to do, she
did it quietly and unostentatiously, and unreservedly, knowing full well, "That there is no
work, nor device, nor knowledge in the grave whither we goeth." She sweetly rests from her
labors, and her works do follow her. And as the Gospel of the grace of God was in her a well
of water, out of the abundance of her heart, so kind, calm, consistent, and courageous, there
constantly flowed streams of living water of earnest, loving, prayerful toil in the Master's
vineyard.

She gathered daily jewels for the crown of her rejoicing. I have found in her diary, that this
was the aim of her whole life.

Companionship with Christ is constantly manifested by love for the Holy Scriptures. "If ye
abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto
you." The will of Jesus is made known through His word.

There is sunshine and beauty in His words. They are practical principles for the regulation
of life, and a humble, holy walk and conversation is the product. It is in His word we behold
the character of Jesus. In the Mirror of the glad tidings, we behold His lovely countenance
and are changed into the same image, from glory to glory. It is no wonder that David exclaimed,
"The entrance of Thy word giveth light." Hence the exhortation of Paul to Timothy, "Preach
the Word." Oh, the intrinsic value of the Word of God. It was because of Christ's own word
that the Samaritans believed on Him, notwithstanding the prejudice they entertained against
the Jews and their religion.

Alas! how many professing Christians make shipwreck of faith because they neglect to read the
Word. Christ is the Word. "This is that bread which came down from heaven. He that eateth my
flesh shall live forever."

What Matthew Henry says of his father at his funeral, may be said with reference to the dear
one who has just left us for the mansions above. Let us then, as ever we hope to meet her with
joy in the other world, follow her with diligence now. Having begun "in the spirit," let us
not "end in the flesh,"--having laid our hands "on the plough," let us not "look back," lest
our latter end be worse than our beginning.

Being dead, she yet speaks to us to be loving and helpful to one another. Her common and undistinguished
love to us all was such that it could never be said which of us she loved the best, and it
speaks to us, now that she is gone, to "love one another with a pure heart fervently." We know
very well that our unity was the joy of her heart while living, and many a time she hath with
us blessed God for it. Let it, therefore, be to the credit and honor of her family, friends,
and the Church, for I find it was her dying prayer for this church and its minister, not only
that we may be built up in holiness and comfort, but that we may be continued in brotherly
love, and be a bundle of arrows which cannot be broken.

Now that we have lost her who was wont to pray for us, and to be a common helper to us, let
us pray so much the more one for another, and be so much the more helpful one to another, especially
in the things that pertain to the kingdom of heaven; and let all our bonds of unity be strengthened
and confirmed, and let it be our constant endeavor, each of us in our place, to be mutually
serviceable to each other's comfort and welfare, and jointly serviceable to the glory of God
and to the comfort of the Church, for Christ loved the Church, and gave Himself for the Church.

When we unbosom ourselves, He lets His love stream richly and gloriously into our hearts. From
day to day, our sister seemed to realize how strongly and truly Christ loved the Church, and
herself, as an individual member of it. The sacrificial death of the Saviour was to her not
simply an historical fact, but a living reality. The sweet peace and pure pleasure she daily
enjoyed was the result of His death. For, "He hath made peace through the blood of His cross."
And since He had made her the happy recipient of His grace, it was her daily delight to walk
in the path of obedience. Christ was to her the door of salvation, and she went in and out
and found pasture, in ministering to the poor and indigent and dying, and in this line of Christian
toil she possessed a remarkable faculty.

She told me on one occasion, during one of my pastoral visits, that she visited a dying woman
and endeavored to point her to Jesus. And when a clergyman of the Church of Rome, who happened
to be present, was retiring, she suggested that they should have a word of prayer together.
He replied, "That while he enjoyed her religious conversation, he could not pray with her,
as she did not belong to his church."

At this remark she was deeply affected, and said, with great emphasis and deep solemnity: "I
thought there was but one fold and one shepherd."

When she sent around, or rather, came herself for me, to the church on Friday, the prayer-meeting
night, to come and see her dear dying husband, she seemed to be troubled when I asked him,
"Are you still trusting in Jesus?" as I observed he was rapidly sinking, I put the question
that I might employ his blessed testimony for my own good, and the good of the congregation.
He quickly responded very emphatically in the affirmative, "Yes! yes!" and I think those were
the last audible words he uttered. But she was troubled because she had such faith in the consistency
of the Christian life of her husband, that she knew full well that he feared no evil, for Christ
was with him.

Oh, how tenderly and lovingly she would step up to his bed-side and kiss his heated brow. When
he became unconscious or rather, when his speech failed him and he would point to his parched
lips to have them moistened, she would tearfully exclaim, "My dear, dear husband, can you not
speak to me? Have you not a word for Esther? My dear husband, how can I live without you?"

About midnight she became perfectly resigned to the will of God, and felt that life, even amid
affliction, is the gift of God, and is a valuable endowment.

In this she was like Christ, "For me to live is Christ," seemed to be her motto to the last.
I left the house about two in the morning. I called again between eight and nine A.M., the
same day, after her husband's death, to see how she was bearing her trouble. But oh, how changed!
Her tears were all dried; and as she sat by the bedside where her husband suffered his last
illness, her countenance wore an expression of perfect peace and Christian fortitude. Like
her Saviour amid the hoary olives of Gethsemane, she could tranquilly exclaim: "Nevertheless,
not my will but thine be done!"

The first words she uttered when I entered the room were: "My dear husband has gone to glory."
These words were uttered very quietly, and very solemnly. Ah, little did she think that in
just one week and two hours from that time, she also was to pass away from earth to heaven,
"To see the King in his beauty, and be forever with the Lord."

The Saturday night after her husband's death, she went to the store for some groceries. It
was the usual custom for her husband, when he would hear the door open, to go down-stairs and
carry the basket up for her; she remarked, when she returned home and experienced his absence
for the first time, "No Papa to come and carry up the basket to-night!" How quickly she remembered
this little act of courtesy and kindness on his part. "He that is faithful in that which is
least, is faithful in much." Gratitude to God and one another for little deeds of kindness
is well-pleasing in His sight.

She fed the hungry and clothed the naked; many a loaf of bread she carried with her own hands
to the necessitous. Many a poor, crying, shivering, half-clad child was comfortably clothed
through her instrumentality: "He that honoreth Him hath mercy on the poor."--Prov. xiv. 31.
"The poor always ye have with you; but me ye have not always." Shall the Christian's remembrance
of these words be overlooked in the great day of reckoning? To care for the poor is practical
Christianity. The question will not be asked in the great day of account: Did you preach long,
deep, and eloquent sermons? Or offer long and pharisaical prayers? No. But He will "say unto
them on His right hand, Come, ye blessed." Why?

As Christian workers we have constantly to remember that while we are justified by our faith
here, and now, we will be judged by our works, yonder.

Henry Law, in "Christ is All," wisely remarks that, "Fruit is the sign of healthy trees, and
so works evidence that we have life." "By their fruits ye shall know them."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

TO DIE IS GAIN.

How frail, how short, how uncertain is human life. He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut
down."--Job xiv. 1. 15-16.

These very solemn passages of Scripture reveal to us two distinct lines of thought: First,
The mutable; and, secondly, the immutable. If a man die, shall he live again? Ah, it is here,
amid the ravages which death makes, that we hear Christ's blessed words, "I am the resurrection
and the life; he that believeth on me though he were dead, yet shall he live."

While it is true that this body must droop and die, and return to dust, yet death cannot touch
the soul. It is immortal, it has been created in the image of God. He is a spirit, and a spirit
is indestructible. The essence of the soul is spiritual. From the hour of the new birth, the
soul of man begins to ripen for glory. All its powers and capacities are gradually developed
and made meet for the inheritance of the saints in light.

This preparation for Heaven is the work of the Holy Spirit. By providences, by sermons, by
the word of truth, and by prayer, God prepares His servants for the heavenly home on high.
Looking, then, at this life as a state of danger, difficulties, and trials--a life of probation--we
must say with Paul, that when the great conflict is over, "To die is gain." "The time of my
departure is at hand.

But remember he said, now I am ready to be offered.

It is only when we are ready to be offered, that to die will be gain. Oh, are you ready? Jesus
says, "be ye also ready."

There are some here, perhaps, who are still unsaved, unprepared for death. Oh, if God should
call for you to-day, where would your soul go? You know that God out of Christ is a consuming
fire. It will not be gain for you when you die, unless you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ.
Oh, come to Him while it is the accepted time, and the day of salvation.

There is no time to be lost in this important matter, for death is upon our track. While God
invites how blest the day. While the Holy Spirit is speaking and saying, "Prepare to meet thy
God." Oh, resist not entreaties, yield to His power. How is it possible for a soul to be ready
for death, and judgment, and a coming eternity, without conversion?

"Verily, verily," said Jesus to Nicodemus, "I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he
cannot see the Kingdom of God." "Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye
shall not enter into the Kingdom of Heaven." How is it possible for any to be ready to meet
God in peace unless they are washed in Christ's blood, and clothed in His spotless and justifying
righteousness.

Paul said, "To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord." There are some, however,
who do not believe this comforting doctrine. They debar the Christian from the enjoyments of
Heaven during the intermediate state between the hour of death and the resurrection. This condition
they call the unconscious state of the dead. They are soul-sleepers, and generally believe
in the pernicious error, namely, the annihilation of the wicked. A pleasing thought no doubt
to the workers of iniquity, as they shall escape the punishment due to their iniquities. This
is about as dangerous a doctrine as the new school theology of reformatory punishment, namely,
that God is so good and so full of universal benevolence, that He cannot consistently, with
His attribute of mercy, consign His creatures to everlasting punishment. It is true that God
is full of love and tender mercy; but He never appeared as a merciful God excepting through
a mediator. He can only be just, and the justifier of those alone who believe in Jesus. "Neither
is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name given under Heaven or among men
whereby we can be saved, but by the name of Jesus." To those, we believe, He is precious at
the hour of death. It is then the believer is ushered into the presence of the King eternal,
immortal, and invisible. In view of the greatness and glory of the transition from earth to
Heaven, the Apostle exclaimed, "I have a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far
better." For it is then that we really begin to live; now we see through a glass darkly; now
we know only in part, but then, oh, what a change, "Beyond the smiling and the weeping." It
is for these mansions we were begotten. "Heirs to an inheritance that is incorruptible, undefiled,
and fadeth not away."

Sister Knowles had the blest assurance of this Heavenly home, she knew this assurance was attainable,
and on earth she enjoyed it, and now she is reaping the rich reward, and its innumerable and
unutterable advantages. And, like Moses, her eye was not dimmed, nor her natural force abated.
Oh! the gain, the bliss of thus dying.

Heaven as our home is worthy our deepest contemplation. "It doth not yet appear what we shall
be." It is a place of perfect rest. Oh, how comforting is this thought to the poor, way-worn,
toiling pilgrim.

    Oh, land of rest for thee I sigh!

The important discovery of this land of rest will nerve our arm for the great conflict of life.
It will inspire us to work more earnestly and more incessantly for Jesus. It will sweeten every
bitter cup of trial and tribulation that we have to encounter here below. It will distil a
desire and a loftiness of aim in life, that we may at last reach the rest that remains for
the people of God. The struggle with inbred sin will be more easily overcome, and every lust
and evil passion will be completely conquered by keeping the eye steadily fixed on those glittering
mansions,

    Where the wicked cease from troubling,
    And the weary are at rest.

Christ Himself will administer this rest to the believer in the Heavenly Kingdom. Just as He
is the source of peace and quiet here on earth, so is He at this moment surrounded with the
saints triumphant in glory, imparting perpetual peace in the paradise of God to all the bright
spirits who loved Him on earth, and kept His commandments. Yonder they enjoy eternal Sabbathism.

Let us fear, therefore, lest haply a promise being left of entering into rest, any of you should
seem to come short of it through unbelief. For indeed we have good tidings preached unto us,
and we which believe do enter into that rest.

Alford, in speaking of the rest on earth that resembles the rest of Heaven, says: "Our Lord
does not promise (here below) freedom from toil or burdens, but rest to the soul." The rest
and joy of the Christian soul is to become like Christ. To the young men, who surrounded her
dying couch, she said: "Avoid bad company, learn of Christ; seek to be like Him, little by little."

But we are to behold the royal dignity of the Redeemer, and be brought forth into a large place
because He delighted in us. Yes! to die is gain. Oh! wondrous change: To behold His illimitable
power and partake of His consummate wisdom and knowledge.

Here we have a continual conflict; but yonder we are made more than conquerors through Him
who loved us. Here we are sinful and short-sighted; but yonder we shall partake of His perfect
holiness and inexhaustible love and Divine penetration in the Heavenly Kingdom. Yes to die
is infinite gain.

The spiritual enjoyment of the soul in the land of light is indescribable. Yonder you shall
behold the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.

You know this was a portion of the parting prayer of Jesus for His disciples. He said: "Father,
I will that they also, whom Thou hast given me, be with me where I am; that they may behold
my glory." There is but a step between us and it. There is but a thin veil that parts us from
the beatic vision of the blest.

I once entered the beautiful harbor of Cronstadt, in Russia, and I distinctly remember that
the entrance was so narrow and land-locked, that we could scarcely discern its precise location
until we had suddenly entered it. The passage from earth to Heaven is not unlike the ending
of the voyage of a ship, even although many of them reach the harbor in a dismantled condition.
Many a storm has been encountered, and while sails have been torn to shreds, yet the gallant
bark has outweathered the gale and has escaped rocks, and quicksands, and whirlpools of destruction.
But now the gale is hushed forever, the sails are all furled, the anchor is cast out, and she
rides securely in the harbor where storms cannot affright. Glorious port of peace! Oh, blessed
and triumphant entry!

    Beautiful valley of Eden,
      Sweet is thy noon-tide calm,
    Over the hearts of the weary,
      Breathing thy waves of balm.

It was the glimpse of this rest beyond the river that lit up the pale cheek of our dear, dying
sister, with seraphic brightness and beauty.

"All my fountains are in thee," said the Psalmist. God is the author of holiness.

The great object therefore of the Gospel of the blessed God is to transform us into the Divine
image. Another of our sister's dying utterances was very forcible, "Now I have got to the edge
of the river."

    "Only just across the river,
    Over on the other side."

We all with open face beholding as in a mirror, the glory of the Lord, are changed into the
same image.

It is thus God's people become meet for the holy inheritance. Here we have to cry out, "Oh,
wretched man, who shall deliver me from the body of this death;" yonder the Spirit's work has
gloriously triumphed. The believer's holiness is effectually accomplished in Heaven. Blessed
are they that wash their robes, that they may have the right to come to the tree of life and
may enter in by the pearly gates into the city.

Heaven is called the land of light. What is light? "Hail, holy light, offspring of Heaven's
first-born." Light is pure. "God is light, and in Him is no darkness at all. Darkness, in God's
Word, is an emblem of sin. 19-20.

The more we increase in the likeness of God, the greater and stronger will our light shine
in this dark world, and the more will we enjoy basking in the sunshine of the light of His
countenance. We are partakers now of the Divine nature, but in Heaven we shall continually
walk before Him who is the enlightener and the light. Oh, the gain, the bliss of dying! For
we shall see His face and His name shall be in our foreheads. 5.

As we stand by the bedside of our loved ones, and watch them wasting away with disease, and
as we behold their love, their patience, and Christian fortitude, we think of earth's bitter
trials and earthly relationship, and of the strong tie that binds heart to heart. To her Pastor
she said: "Preach the Gospel uncolored!" We look upon the sinking form of a dear wife and mother,
or brother, or sister, or husband, or friend, and as we sadly muse upon the fact that we held
sweet counsel together and walked to the House of God in company; and we softly whisper to
the physician is there no hope of recovery? Can you not save that young and precious life,
so dear to us, so gentle, so loving, so kind, so sympathetic, so hopeful? And as in response
to our inquiry, we receive the look of pity, and the sorrowful shake of the head, it is then,
in our deepest agony, amid blinding tears, and hearts almost crushed to despair, we turn to
our great Father above, and we ask, why must we part? Oh, God, can you not spare him? How can
I live without him?

Providential bereavements are sad scenes in life, for the scythe of death stops not to ask
if they be sweet and precious to some fond wife, or mother, or brother, who knows? whom their
heart chose. On! on! he pursues his desolating work, amid their sighs, their cries, and tears.

But beloved, there is no tearing of heart from heart in Heaven. There is no death there; there
is no sorrow there; there is no sin there.

I have had persons tell me when God has suddenly removed loved ones from their midst, that
God had forsaken them, that He had forgotten to be gracious. But ah, to such let me say that
the Lord loveth whom He chasteneth. God is love. Like as a father pitieth his children, so
the Lord pitieth them that fear Him.

But what is the object God has in view in thus breaking the family circle by death? It is that
our attention may be attracted to the saints above, and that we may by faith behold the beauties
of the Celestial city.

You know, David says, "It was good for me that I was afflicted; before I was afflicted, I went
astray." We not unfrequently forget that this is not our home. But that we are strangers and
pilgrims on the earth. God has to put us in remembrance of it. Beautiful as this world is,
there is a fairer and brighter, and infinitely more lovely world above our heads. Lovely as
human friendships and fellowships are here below, what are they in comparison to the felicitous
condition of society in heaven?

There are no estranged feelings in heaven. There are no misunderstandings there. No sickness
there. All, all is peace and joy and love!

Our faith in God, and in the existence of Heaven, and the possibilities of the future life,
can enable us to triumph over the trials and bereavements in this vale of tears.

Dr. Guthrie asks: "Why should we not lie as calmly in the arms of God's Providence, as we lay
in infancy on a mother's breast? Having an ever-living, an everlasting, an ever-loving Father
in God, how may we welcome all providences, sweetly submissive to the will of God. Shall it
not fare with us as with the pliant reeds that love the hollows and fringe the margin of the
lake, and bending to the blast, not resisting it, raise their heads anew, unharmed by the storm
that has snapped the mountain's pine and rent the hearts of oaks asunder."

How can we best overcome the lusts of the flesh, the lusts of the eye, and the pride of life
but by deep and continued meditation on the blessed change that takes place at the hour of
death. The shadows of earth are instantly dispelled when we set our affections on things above.

"Who are these arrayed in white robes, and whence came they? I remember once standing at the
grave of Richard Cameron, in Ayrs Moss, and as I read the names of other martyrs engraved on
the tomb-stone, I thought of the general assembly of the Church of the first-born in Heaven,
and as I read God's Word there and sang a sweet Psalm of praise to Jehovah, and offered a prayer
to the Father of lights, the God of Israel, I thought of the prayer of Peden, the prophet,
as he sat on Cameron's grave. Lifting up his eyes steadfastly to Heaven, he prayed: "Oh, to
be wi' Ritchie!"

    "Often at the shades of evening,
      When I sit me down to rest,
    One by one, I count them over,
      They who are in glory blest."

Dearly beloved, I have a Ritchie[7] in Heaven, for I have recently learned of the death of
the spiritual guide of my youth, who, in years gone by, at the close of a cottage prayer-meeting,
requested me, for the first time in my life, to speak a word for Jesus. Pulling a flower from
the hill-side, he said as he held it up, "I can see God in that gowan." Taking me to his room,
he said, "This is my study; these are my books, I am going to be a minister of the Gospel,
and then go to China."

      [7] The late Rev. Hugh Ritchie, of Formosa, China.

Handing me a neat, little, precious volume, he said, "Take this book and study it, and commence
speaking for Jesus, and help me in my meetings." Surely to such to die is gain.

Who; who, would live alway away from his God--away from yonder Heaven, that blissful abode
where the noontide of glory eternally reigns, and the smile of the Lord is the feast of the soul?

Dearly beloved, we may well ask, "Who are these arrayed in white robes?" Oh, what celebrated
personages are above! The prophets, the apostles, the reformers, and the martyrs of Scotland
are there. For in a dream of the night I was wafted away to the moorland and moss, where the
martyrs lay. When the minister's home was the mountain and flood. When they dared not worship
God in daylight. Only at the dead of night, when the wintry winds raved fierce, and the thunder-peal
compelled the men of blood to crouch within their den. Then the faithful few--true followers
of the blessed Jesus--would venture forth to some deep dell by the rock o'er canopied; then,
amid the glare of sheeted lightning, those men of God would open the sacred Book and words
of comfort speak. From the bonnie highland heather of her lofty summits to the modest gowan
on the lea, not a flower but has blushed with the martyr's blood. But, beloved, the blood of
the martyrs was the seed of the Church. What holy, loving lessons does God teach us by the
history of the true Church, and a thoroughly consecrated people--lessons of love, hope, fortitude,
and long-suffering!

    "Oh, Jesus, our Master, command to beat faster
    These weary life-pulses that bring us to Thee."

Our dear departed sister had the true missionary spirit. She feared not the things she was
called on to suffer for Christ in her great work in this city. Let us who are left behind catch
her magnanimous and heroic disposition in working for the blessed Jesus. Oh, that the spirit
of our noble ancestry might come upon us! Oh, that the Holy Spirit of God may enter into all
our hearts to-day, that we may be more humble, more loving, more zealous, more sympathetic,
and more sincere in our toil for Christ and His Church; then to die will be gain! and to Him
shall be all the glory, world without end. Amen.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

TESTIMONIALS AND LETTERS OF CONDOLENCE.

    I've found a Friend; oh, such a Friend!
    So kind, and true, and tender,
    So wise a Counsellor and guide,
    So mighty a Defender!
    From him, who loves me now so well,
    What power my love can sever?
    Shall life, or death, or earth, or hell?
    No, I am his forever.

The following resolutions and letters furnish, in a pre-eminent degree, conclusive evidence
of the high estimation in which His servant and handmaiden were held by ministers, elders,
and Sabbath-school workers generally:

    NEW YORK, January 12, 1869.

    MRS. JAMES KNOWLES:

    MY DEAR FRIEND--At the Annual Meeting of the Teachers' Association
    of the Sabbath-school of the Ebenezer Presbyterian Church, held last
    evening, the following action was taken:

        "On motion, the cordial thanks of this Association are voted to
        Mrs. James Knowles for her faithful labors in behalf of our
        School during the past year."

    The following extract from the Annual Report was also ordered to be
    forwarded with the foregoing:

        "Mention must be made of one of our own church members, Mrs.
        Knowles, who has labored most devotedly for our School. In
        behalf of the School, the Superintendent would take this way of
        expressing our gratitude for her cheerful, earnest, and
        persevering labor. She has taken a deep interest in our School,
        and has shown it by hard work in its behalf."

    I am very glad that the pleasant duty of making you acquainted with
    this action has been imposed upon me. Without your help I would
    oftentimes during the past year have been very much discouraged.
    Your readiness for Christian work, and your thoroughness in it,
    have both cheered and satisfied me. May you fully realize the
    promise given to those who are always abounding in the work of the
    Lord. (1 Cor. xv. 58.) And may the present year show us a
    continuance of your willing labors and be marked by a stronger
    faith in expectation and more new-born souls, as your joy and crown
    in realization. (Psalm cxxvi. 5-6.)

    Respectfully yours in the Master,

    SAMUEL B. W. MCKEE,
    Superintendent.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

When we take into consideration the time that elapsed between the penning of the foregoing
resolutions as no vain and unmeaning compliment, and the departure of her concerning whom they
were voted upon, we are led to see the importance of those words in the Apocalypse: "He that
is faithful unto death shall receive a crown of eternal life." How significant are the words
employed to denote their hearty appreciation of her worth.

The following additional affectionate and deeply instructive tribute to her worth to the church
and Sabbath-school is from one who was her beloved pastor for seven years--years of pure and
uninterrupted Christian fellowship and disinterested devotedness to the cause of Christ.

    UTICA, N.Y., November 8, 1886.

    REV. DUNCAN M. YOUNG:

    DEAR BROTHER--In the removal of Mr. and Mrs. James Knowles we
    sustain a personal loss. The fact was unknown to us previous to your
    letter. To enjoy such friendship as they admitted us into from our
    first acquaintance, was not unlike a continuous salutation with the
    impressiveness of an unqualified good-will. Heaven is indeed
    richer for their entrance, and by so much is increasingly endeared
    unto us.

    They were not time-servers, but, in no mere sentimental sense,
    God-servers. The feverish world, greedy and rushing, will know
    little of their value, nor miss their humble crafts so quickly
    trackless, and yet they really laid the world under obligation. If
    its life, and aim, and effort were not purer and higher, it was in
    spite of their actual godliness, at all times apparent.

    My first introduction to Mrs. Knowles was on the first Sabbath in
    February, 1874; also, my first acquaintance with the Allen Street
    Church. Mrs. Knowles was then teaching in the Ludlow Street Mission.
    As a teacher, she was simple, fearless, and Scriptural. Her
    ruling passion, perhaps, was a desire to be useful in some way,
    adjusting herself with good grace to the requirements of advancing
    years. If just a little disturbed at the thought that she must
    contract her labors, or "hold up" at some point, the spirit was ever
    the same, perhaps too exacting of a body not excessively vigorous.

    As a "Bible reader" she did some of her best work, and made her
    greatest sacrifices. Faithfulness characterized her covenant
    relation--seldom absent from the scenes of public worship; and the
    more remarkable in view of her untiring zeal and devotion in her
    specially God-given calling. Many will rise up and call her
    blessed, because, so true of her, "she went about doing good." My
    own indebtedness to her, as a pastor, was great. Her sympathy with
    the ministry seemed innate. Full of faith, and rich in peculiar
    experience, she was the one "to step in" at the minister's for a
    half-hour; and here, incidentally, I may say, that her practical
    views of life and knowledge of human ways turned to my advantage on
    repeated occasions, whenever she reported a case as worthy or
    unworthy. When an application for aid or comfort required
    investigation--that is, ultimate cases requiring delicate, careful
    treatment, often impossible for the pastor to do--her feminine
    instinct and sagacity of experience took it in hand with a
    readiness that was surprising, in view of her always full hands. A
    gentle, trustful soul, a frank, unwavering friend, a pious, useful
    woman, and a faithful wife and mother, her rest will be sweet.

    If the beginning of my acquaintance with her companion dates
    somewhat later, it ripened early, I suppose mutually so, into a
    strong attachment. Integrity of character was my first impression of
    the man; whether an instinct or a judgment, there never was a doubt
    as to its correctness. Strong in faith, also--the old-time faith,
    of apostolic color, for he took no pleasure in "new departures."
    Sound in doctrine, fervent in spirit, wise in council, stable in
    action, he was truly a strong "pillar in the house of the Lord." If
    he wrought obscurely, as the world moves, my impression is that he
    did some excellent work for eternity in the most quiet sort of way.
    I do not think Heaven could be a surprise to one of his habits and
    trend of life. He could assimilate the good easily. Though positive
    in his feelings, and sensitive of attachment, he was no mere
    man-worshipper, whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, so long as it
    was the Word of Christ, faithfully, earnestly preached; he was a
    responsive hearer. The chief desire was that the word should be
    successful. Perhaps simplicity was as characteristic as any other
    distinct trait. If he did not choose the uppermost seats he occupied
    them becomingly when once bidden to take them.

    I remember him not so much by means of incidents--his life was not
    formed on that plan; but by the deep impression of genuine,
    unpretentious godliness.

    If I have written at too great length, my heart is full. In deep
    sympathy with those who will so surely mourn their loss, and
    grateful for the privilege of a tribute, I am,

    Sincerely yours,

    GEORGE O. PHELPS,
    An Ex-Pastor.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

The more I read and study the phraseology of this letter, welling up out of a full heart, the
more I am convinced of its adaptedness to impart encouragement to others the same in kind and
degree as was doubtless reciprocally experienced in days of yore, "for as iron sharpeneth iron,
so does the countenance of man his friend."

Here is another tender and terse tribute from the same source to their only son--the request
for particulars regarding their last illness, which produced the leaflet entitled "A Short
Account of the Last Hours"--that has been already a rich spiritual blessing to many souls.

    UTICA, N.Y., November, 1886.

    MR. WM. KNOWLES:

    DEAR BROTHER--We have just learned of the departure of your dear
    parents. Our attachment to them was exceptionally strong, even as
    our association in the Master's work was intimate.

    I have been looking over your father's letters, too few in numbers;
    how full of human kindness, how intensely godly.

    Be assured of our sincere regard for you and others in this great
    bereavement.

    May we not receive, at your convenience, particulars of their last
    illness and going? We have no knowledge of either case.

    Very sincerely yours,

    GEORGE O. PHELPS.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

The subjoined is the answer to the reception of the account of their last hours on earth.

    UTICA N.Y., November 30, 1886.

    MR. WM. KNOWLES:

    MY DEAR SIR AND BROTHER--You have laid us under great obligation by
    your lengthy and painstaking statement respecting your lamented
    parents. Seldom have we been affected so deeply as in the reading of
    it, which came so appropriately as to time and feeling, just as we
    were closing one of the sweetest meetings of our little "Gospel
    Band." Yes, truly, those dear, true friends of ours were as "little
    children" in "the Kingdom of Heaven."

    Nothing would afford me greater satisfaction than to be able to add
    further by word or incident what you desire to gather up by way of
    a grateful memorial. As I stated in my letter to Mr. Young, my
    impressions were made by their uniform consistency of character,
    and not by any particular event or circumstance. Perhaps the
    enclosed letters will afford characteristic illustration of your
    father's habitual godliness or tenor of life. As to your mother,
    why, she was always "going about doing good," seemingly never
    tiring.

    What death-bed scenes! If those faithful words of hers are ever
    forgotten, somebody will have a hard witness against them at last.
    Their memory is indeed blessed. We will all try to profit by their
    examples of godly fidelity, and faithful admonitions. With the
    sincerest sympathy, I am,

    Gratefully yours,

    GEORGE O. PHELPS.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

    UTICA, N.Y., February 17, 1887.

    MR. WM. KNOWLES:

    DEAR BROTHER--You have laid us under new obligations. On my study
    table is a picture of the pastor of my childhood--It has been there
    nearly my entire ministry. You can conceive the influence it is
    designed to exert over me. Now there will be, if not in my study
    exclusively, in our house itself, the constant stimulus of such
    reminders of devotion as these two most welcome pictures.

    We are indeed very grateful to you for them; your filial love was
    strong while they lived, and must be quickened by their death, but
    if anybody outside of the circle of kindred exceeds our veneration
    for your parents, they deserve it all. We certainly cannot fail
    to cherish what has been so well done by the artist, the expression
    in both pictures is so characteristic. It seems, when we dwell
    intently upon them and let thoughts come and go at liberty, that the
    lips must open and pleasant words come from them as in life; but
    they do speak, nevertheless, and as distinctly, and as
    affectionately. Oh! that we were more worthy to hear. And that
    blessing upon yourself, how valuable and hopeful, or encouraging it
    must be.

    I know you will share it with others, and so make a saintly life
    still reproductive. The world needs nothing so much as positive
    Christian character.

    Permit me to say that we are greatly prospered in our work, and
    have hand and heart seemingly full; but, old Allen Street has a
    warm place in our affection always. Our united regards.

    Affectionately yours,

    GEORGE O. PHELPS.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

The reader will surely notice the true, touching, and graphic account of their work in the
next letter.

    UTICA, N.Y., April 8, 1887.

    REV. MR. YOUNG:

    DEAR SIR AND BROTHER--While my mind is full of impressions
    concerning the life and work of Mr. and Mrs. Knowles, it is not easy
    to withdraw the details, and give you any real satisfaction. The
    very simplicity and humility of their ways and deeds render it
    impossible to make any adequate illustration--not that incidents are
    lacking. Why, there are families in the vicinity of Allen Street who
    could relate incidents by the hour touching the gentle care of Mrs.
    Knowles for the needy and sick.

    Here her life can never be written in full. "Oh, Mr. Phelps, how
    sad it is about Mrs. K---- and her little family." "Poor L----, she
    is going just like her brother, and they don't want me to tell her
    of our fears." "I have just been to see poor Mr. H----, he cannot
    live--he doesn't seem to realize it; and then what will become of
    his family? I have tried so long to get them into the
    Sabbath-school." "I have just come from Mrs. F---- (a woman of
    means and Christian charity), who encouraged me greatly in the care
    of that family where the father is in the hospital." "Mr. Phelps,
    can you go to No. 12 ---- Street, and see a young man who is sick,
    and will have to go to the hospital? No friends, and I have been
    trying to make him comfortable." "Mr. Phelps, can you attend the
    funeral of a child on ---- Street? It did suffer so much--its
    mother is on the Island."

    These were common to her work, as I now recall them; not
    sentimental products of imagination, but facts, only lacking the
    details to make the tenor of her life stranger than fiction. To see
    her quietly enter some abode of the lowly, her soft and gentle
    greeting to the housewife engaged in her home duties, the aspect,
    perhaps, a forlorn one, and hear her words of heart-felt sympathy
    and encouragement, her solicitude for the little ones, that they
    might be "trained in the way of the Lord," and that simple,
    fervent, trustful prayer, which seems so befitting as to excite no
    repellant feeling; and that parting word which would go straight to
    the mother-heart. Here is a picture of Christian-following which
    even Munkacsy could not paint.

    The Master reserves some things for future inspection. We have no
    sufficient canvas for these in such humble, useful lives.

    Her faithfulness in dealing with the erring was remarkable;
    seemingly without fear of man, and yet always full of gentleness.

    We had a way of investigating cases appealing for charity. One day
    a girl, nine or ten years of age, came to the door with a basket
    asking for something; her mother was a widow and poor, baby sick,
    etc., etc.

    We asked Mrs. Knowles to look into the case. She went to the place
    given, and at first there was some mistake, or, perhaps, a purposed
    misdirection; but, nothing daunted by the difficulties encountered,
    she succeeded in gaining admittance to apartments on the second
    floor, where, instead of poverty and sickness, she found the mother
    in the midst of evident comfort, seated at her piano, who at first
    denied all knowledge of the little charity girl, and was only
    confronted successfully by the entrance unguardedly of the child
    herself.

    If confusion ever overtook a mortal fraud, in which an active
    apprehension and deep humiliation were successfully involved; it was
    then and there in the presence of holy indignation on fire. Mrs.
    Knowles was simply irresistible in such cases.

    Now, dear brother, I hardly know what use you can possibly make of
    this, but my prayers shall go with your work of perpetuating their
    memory.

    Very sincerely yours,

    GEORGE O. PHELPS

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

The thought that the servants of Christ are praying for us is very cheering in the prosecution
of our work.

The facts enumerated in the following letter from Pastor Chambers contain a thousand thoughts
as descriptive of what every Christian ought to pray for and strive after, namely, to be, as
he expresses it, an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no guile.

How expressive in this connection are the words of the apostle, "Take heed lest there be found
in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God."

    NEW YORK, November 9, 1886.

    REV. D. MCNEILL YOUNG:

    DEAR BROTHER--Your letter informing me of the death of Mr. and Mrs.
    Knowles was forwarded to me from Harrisburg, to this city.

    I had seen a notice of Mr. Knowles' death in a New York paper, but
    had not known of the departure of his wife, whose death, under such
    circumstances, had a pathos peculiar to itself. Her presence at his
    funeral, it would seem, was more than her affectionate testimony to
    their past devotion to each other. It was her unconscious prophecy
    of their speedy reunion in the presence of Him whom they both loved
    and served.

    You ask me for some information in regard to them, during the time
    of my ministry in this city. They both illustrated the truth of the
    remark, that "to be useful, it is not necessary to be conspicuous."
    Mr. Knowles was "an Israelite indeed, in whom was no guile." Gentle
    and peaceable in spirit, loving the house of God, rejoicing in the
    spiritual prosperity of the church, speaking evil of no man, a
    firm friend of his minister, relishing all conversation upon divine
    things, frequenting the place of prayer where he was often heard
    leading the devotions of the people in simple, earnest, Scriptural
    petition, and ever willing to help in Sabbath-school work, or any
    other form of Christian activity in which he might be of service--he
    was just such a man as any pastor is glad to have as a friend and
    helper. He was a ruling elder in the church from the time I first
    knew him, and in that capacity was one of the first to welcome me to
    New York. He was unobtrusive in all meetings of session, but never
    failed to give his suggestions on all matters that came before him,
    but was happiest when it was his privilege as an elder to welcome to
    the communion of the church those who confessed Christ.

    Mrs. Knowles I knew as a warm friend of the church, while at the
    same time a faithful member of that band of Bible readers whose
    blessed work is best known by the Divine Master. She enjoyed that
    service for Christ; she loved to talk about it. Her fidelity and
    consecration are known to those under whose superintendence she
    labored; but the results of her devotion are a matter of divine
    record. May it not be that she has now discovered the real dignity
    and the glorious consequences of a service which she humbly, yet
    lovingly followed here, and that in Heaven's high fellowship the
    faithful Bible reader has a place of peculiar honor?

    I can only say, in conclusion, that a church is bereaved indeed
    when two such Christians are taken from it. The Providence that
    calls them away should not only stimulate those who remain to a
    holier activity, but should also elevate our thoughts and
    affections, and make us the more glad that at the end of our
    journey, and the cessation of our earthly activities, we will
    discover the still grander meaning of Christ and Heaven.

    Yours fraternally,

    GEORGE S. CHAMBERS.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

The next letter is from one who materially aided her in helping the necessitous.

    November 21, 1886.

    REV. DUNCAN MCNEILL YOUNG:

    DEAR SIR--Absence from the city has prevented my answering your kind
    note received only last evening.

    I have no statistical facts to give you, relative to our dear Mrs.
    Knowles, but I can testify to her interest in her work until the
    last, her lovely Christian spirit shown under all circumstances,
    and her love for her Heavenly Father.

    She seemed to me to be supremely happy and content with whatever
    lot was given her.

    I was not able to be with her when she was ill, but was at her
    funeral.

    She must be missed in her field of labor, and I am sure I shall
    miss her prayers for myself.

    Hoping this will be of some use to you, I am,

    Yours sincerely,

    M. T. FISKE.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

The annexed note of commendation from the Rev. Dr. Conkling, of this city, who formerly labored
in word and doctrine with the deceased, in connection with the Allen Street Church, is concise
yet comprehensive. How much is implied in these words--faithful, loving, earnest, prayerful
and consistent Christians!

    NEW YORK CITY, November, 1886.

    DEAR MR. YOUNG--My acquaintance with Mr. and Mrs. Knowles was so
    limited that my knowledge of them could be only of the most general
    character. I knew them, as all who knew them could testify, as
    earnest, loving Christians, faithful in their church duties,
    prayerful and consistent; and evidently living always near to
    Christ. I prized their friendship much; I feel how deep the loss to
    the church must be in being deprived of their active influence and
    their believing prayers.

    With thanks for your kindly note, conveying the sacred request, I
    remain, dear sir,

    Sincerely yours,

    NATH'L W. CONKLING.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

To show how greatly beloved they were by all denominations we insert this closing tribute from
a dear servant of Christ, whose calm, clear eye of penetration recognized that, by prayerfully
studying the character of Christ we became assimilated to His glorious image. He is a member
of the Society of Friends.

    CLINTONDALE, N.Y., June 23, 1887.

    DUNCAN M. YOUNG:

    DEAR BROTHER--Yours received, bearing us news indeed. We had not
    heard before of the demise of our dear Brother and Sister Knowles.

    The effect of it at first, to me, was that I could scarcely speak
    for a fulness of feeling which it produced, and a home-sickness for
    the home where they have gone.

    My memory was immediately taken back to the visit I paid them a year
    ago last spring, which was very pleasant and soul-refreshing, and
    especially to the parting kiss that the dear Mother in Israel gave
    me on my parting from them; and also she gave me a supply of
    beautiful tracts, which I had the privilege of using to the comfort
    of two souls on the cars as I was returning home, and some of the
    tracts I have yet, and you can depend on it I place higher value on
    them than ever before.

    The little leaflet you sent us is very appropriate indeed, but none
    can do them justice in writing of them, for we do not know of all
    their heart-yearnings and achings over poor wanderers, and their
    personal private labors for their salvation, neither can we ever
    know until we see the record of it all up there.

    And may you, dear Brother, as the honored minister of God, carry
    out literally her exhortation to you, "Preach the Gospel
    Uncolored."

    Accept my sincere thanks for your kindness in writing us, and
    sending the leaflets. You asked if I could use any of them? I can,
    certainly, and there are a few around here yet living who remember
    our departed sister and brother when they boarded at our house.

    I unite in interest and prayer with you for your important Work in
    the abundant ripe fields of Harvest, and pray that you will receive
    many souls for your hire.

    I am, yours sincerely, and in the love of the pure Gospel of the
    Kingdom of our Christ,

    ERASTUS S. ANDREWS.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

    "They lived, and they were useful; this we know.
    Oh, take who will the boon of fading fame!
            But give to me
    A place among the workers, though my name
            Forgotten be,
    And if within the book of life is found
            My lowly place,
    Honor and glory unto God redound
            For all His grace!"

CHAPTER XXXVII.

CONCLUSION.

In concluding these memoirs and looking back over the lives of our departed brother and sister,
there is a great lesson to be learned--that of example. Such example as theirs possesses incalculable
power of effecting good. It takes deep and tenacious root; it fructifies with amazing rapidity
and profusion, and flourishes where precept would utterly perish. Its impression is so indelible,
that the greatest difficulty is experienced when attempting to eradicate it. The salutary influence
which good example propagates, we find stamped on every avocation in life. In some people a
heinous negligence, and in others a culpable apathy is evinced with respect to the principles
their conduct is implanting. Profuse illustrations abound in every profession, calling, and
trade, of the effect of evil example, and also of the disregard paid to its consequences. Whether
or not this regardlessness arises from negligence, or ignorance, it is difficult to determine.
All classes of society possess, undoubtedly, though in varying degrees, the important power
of exemplifying good or evil, and it behooves them to act with greater circumspection and discretion
with respect to the injurious consequences which their examples may evoke, having due regard
to the avidity which is shown by weak minds to follow example, however pernicious. It is natural
for man to imitate a model or pattern, as it thereby affords him a much easier and more agreeable
opportunity of forming his ideas on any particular subject. Nor is example confined to those
holding high public positions. Its presence and power are experienced as much from the humblest
Bible woman as from the greatest shining light in the pulpit. I admit that influence, good
or evil, is propagated to a greater extent when the source from which it emanates is more prominently
before the gaze of the world than if it were less public; but I am persuaded that the closer
the relationship between the one who exerts the influence and the one upon whom it takes effect,
the more deep and lasting will the impression prove, and any endeavors to eradicate it will
involve more strenuous efforts and diligent application than where there is no sympathetic
feeling evinced by the one toward the other.

The implicitness with which example is followed is subject to considerable variations, for
I am inclined to think that the lower the moral position the greater the aptitude for imitation
is displayed. This arises from the incapability of those who occupy such positions to tear
asunder the forms which envelope them, and strike a path untrodden for themselves. They find
it much more congenial to their tastes and pursuits to act as others around them usually do
than to alienate themselves and endeavor to live more in accordance with the laws of morality.
No one can deny, especially those who knew her well, that Mrs. Knowles's great success was
as much derived from her example and humility as from any power of teaching and persuasion
she possessed. And now, dear readers, those of you who have not the gift of leading others
into the paths of virtue and morality by the gift of ready speech or the force of your conversation
and address, can at least so regulate your conduct that the little world around you may look
up to you as an example, however humble your position in it may be.

There are lesser lights along the iron-bound coast of England than the Eddystone; still they
serve the purpose for which they were erected. Yea, the widow's lamp, in the window of the
cottage by the sea, saved her own son from shipwreck. The Talisman's motto ought to be ours:

    "Be watchful, be ready, for shipwreck prepare,
    Keep an eye on the life-boat, but never despair!"

All along our coast the Government has built massive and strong light-houses to guide and warn
the tempest-tossed mariner. The passage may have been hazardous to many a staunch ship and
brave crew, occasioned by constant exposure to a multiplicity of dangers seen and unseen. Who
can tell of the deep anxiety of the gloomy days and nights they spent waiting and watching,
while many a keen blast has mournfully whistled through the shrouds, and many a billow has
threatened to engulf their bark; but how cheering is yonder light streaming forth amid the
densest darkness. It speaks with trumpet-tongue to the bewildered navigator, and says, "This
is the course, steer ye by it." How refreshing the sight. How assuring those bright beams that
quiver over the perilous sea. Clouds and wind must not affright, for the gladsome welcome light
of example interposes between us and disappointment and despair. "Ye are the light of the world,"
said Jesus. It is by beholding the lights that once shone on earth, that are now shining as
the stars for ever and ever in heaven, that we, seeing their good works do glorify our Father
in Heaven.

How many, alas! are utterly unconscious of the power of a godly example; it is only prayerful
reflection upon it that rivets the connecting link between earth and heaven. Endearing attachments
are formed and gradually, eternally perpetuated, strengthened by constant companionship. It
is then we become truer-hearted, more gentle, more generous, and more affectionate. Exquisitely
rounded Christian character is only thus obtained. Our hearts, and glad, willing service ought
to be laid on the same altar as our humble offering, in proof of the profit and pleasure that
we have experienced in reviewing the career of those great examples worthy of study and imitation.
This is the only explanation we can give for penning this memorial. Our hearts were deeply
stirred by the words uttered with the dying breath of Mrs. Knowles, when she said to me, "PREACH
THE GOSPEL UNCOLORED;" I want to recognize their importance as synonymous with Paul's exhortation
to Timothy, "Preach the Word." Yes, dear reader, this is the sword of the Spirit, which is
the Word of God, and it is quick and powerful. We must wield it earnestly and bravely in the
great conflict of life, constantly reiterating the Bible woman's dying words:

    "MY DAY IS SHORT, I MUST FINISH MY WORK!"

In perusing these memoirs, we ask, Who can read the foregoing correspondence and record of
God's goodness to His saints, and through them to perishing souls, promiscuously scattered
among all classes, and creeds, and colors, Jews and Gentiles alike, without feelings of unfeigned
gratitude to God for raising up two such worthy persons to adorn "the doctrine of God, our
Saviour?"

Our earnest prayer is, that the Holy Spirit will not allow to pass unobserved such lives of
usefulness and self-sacrifice, without awakening a deeper interest in the lapsed masses of
the lower part of this city.

We sincerely trust, also, that the publication and perusal of this humble effort to glorify
God by perpetuating the memory of the loved ones so fondly cherished shall not be all in vain,
and fall on the heart as a dead letter, "like the wind that passes over the rock, leaving it
harder than before." Mr. D. L. Moody once said, "I never saw a man who was aiming to do the
best work, but there could be some improvement; I never did anything in my life that I didn't
think I could have done better, and I have often upbraided myself that I had not done better.
But to sit down and find fault with other people when we are doing nothing ourselves is all
wrong, and is the opposite of holy, patient, divine love." May we rather be of that number
concerning whom it is said, "Blessed are those servants, who, when their Lord shall come, He
will find watching."

The sunset of life will come sooner or later, "Let us, then, give earnest heed to the things
which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip." Especially let us consider
the importance of Mrs. Knowles's final farewell exhortation: "Be kind, gentle, and patient.

In bidding our readers adieu, I would, in conclusion, urge that they seriously reflect upon
the significance of the Bible woman's last triumphant utterances: "Once I was young, now I
am old, and have never been forsaken."

    Who to their reward will say them nay,
      In Heaven or on Earth:
    Brave Pilgrims of Israel, pass'd away--
      We till now ne'er knew your worth!
    Go! write out their lives on leaves of gold,
      With characters of love,
    Let the future know, when we are cold,
      Of our loved ones gone above.