The next part of the case is the conduct of the prosecutor in attempting to find out the robbers,
after he had recovered from his illness. He suspected Mr. Pearson, a very honest, respectable
man, who keeps the tavern at the bridge. He searched his house and premises. He sent for a
conjuror to come, with his metallic rods and witch-hazel, to find the stolen money. Goodridge
says now, that he thought he should find it, if the conjuror's instruments were properly prepared.
He professes to have full faith in the art. Was this folly, or fraud, or a strange mixture
of both? Pretty soon after the last search, gold pieces were actually found near Mr. pearson's
house, in the manner stated by the female witness. How came they there? Did the robber deposit
them there? That is not possible. Did he accidentally leave them there? Why should not a robber
take as good care of his money as others? It is certain, too, that the gold pieces were not
put there at the time of the robbery, because the ground was then bare; but when these pieces
were found, there were several inches of snow below them. When Goodridge searched here with
his conjuror, he was on this spot, alone and unobserved, as he thought. Whether he did not,
at that time, drop his gold into the snow, the jury will judge. When he came to this search,
he proposed something very ridiculous. He proposed that all persons about to assist in the
search should be examined, to see that they had nothing which they could put into Pearson's
possession, for the purpose of being found there. But how was this examination to be made?
Why, truly, Goodridge proposed that every man should examine himself, and that, among others,
he would examine himself, till he was satisfied he had nothing in his pockets which he could
leave at pearson's, with the fraudulent design of being afterwards found there, as evidence
against pearson. What construction would be given to such conduct?

As to Jackman, Goodridge went to New York and arrested him. In his room he says he found paper
coverings of gold, with his own figures on them, and pieces of an old and useless receipt,
which he can identify, and which he had in his possession at the time of the robbery. He found
these things lying on the floor in Jackman's room. What should induce the robbers, when they
left all other papers, to take this receipt? And what should induce Jackman to carry it to
New York, and keep it, with the coverings of the gold, in a situation where it was likely to
be found, and used as evidence against him?

There is no end to the series of improbabilities growing out of the prosecutor's story.

One thing especially deserves notice. Wherever Goodridge searches, he always finds something;
and what he finds, he always can identify and swear to, as being his. The thing found has always
some marks by which he knows it. Yet he never finds much. He never finds the mass of his lost
treasure. He finds just enough to be evidence, and no more.

These are the circumstances which tend to raise doubts of the truth of the prosecutor's relation.
It is for the jury to say, whether it would be safe to convict any man for this robbery until
these doubts shall be cleared up. No doubt they are to judge him candidly; but they are not
to make every thing yield to a regard to his reputation, or a desire to vindicate him from
the suspicion of a fraudulent prosecution.

He stands like other witnesses, except that he is a very interested witness; and he must hope
for credit, if at all, from the consistency and general probability of the facts to which he
testifies. The jury will not convict the prisoners to save the prosecutor from disgrace. He
has had every opportunity of making out his case. If any person in the State could have corroborated
any part of his story, that person he could have produced. He has had the benefit of full time,
and good counsel, and of the Commonwealth's process, to bring in his witnesses. More than all,
he has had an opportunity of telling his own story, with the simplicity that belongs to truth,
if it were true, and the frankness and earnestness of an honest man, if he be such. It is for
the jury to say, under their oaths, how he has acquitted himself in these particulars, and
whether he has left their minds free from doubt as to the truth of his narration.

But if Goodridge were really robbed, is there satisfactory evidence that the defendants had
a hand in the commission of this offence? The evidence relied on is the finding of the money
in their house. It appears that these defendants lived together, and, with a sister, constituted
one family. Their father lived in another part of the same house, and with his wife constituted
another and distinct family. In this house, some six weeks after the robbery, the prosecutor
made a search; and the result has been stated by the witnesses. Now, if the money had been
passed or used by the defendants it might have been conclusive. If found about their persons,
it might have been very strong proof. But, under the circumstances of this case, the mere finding
of money in their house, and that only in places where the prosecutor had previously been,
is no evidence at all. With respect to the gold pieces, it is certainly true that they were
found in Goodridge's track. They were found only where he had been, and might have put them.

When the sheriff was in the house and Goodridge in the cellar, gold was found in the cellar.
When the sheriff was up stairs and Goodridge in the rooms below, the sheriff was called down
to look for money where Goodridge directed, and there money was found. As to the bank-note,
the evidence is not quite so clear. Mr. Leavitt says he found a note in a drawer in a room
in which none of the party had before been; that he thought it an uncurrent or counterfeit
note, and not a part of Goodridge's money, and left it where he found it, without further notice.
An hour or two afterward, Upton perceived a note in the same drawer, Goodridge being then with
or near him, and called to Leavitt. Leavitt told him that he had discovered that note before,
but that it could not be Goodridge's. It was then examined. Leavitt says he looked at it, and
saw writing on the back of it. Upton says he looked at it, and saw writing on the back of it.
He says also that it was shown to Goodridge, who examined it in the same way that he and Leavitt
examined it. None of the party at this time suspected it to be Goodridge's. It was then put
into Leavitt's pocket-book, where it remained till evening, when it was taken out at the tavern;
and then it turns out to be, plainly and clearly, one of Goodridge's notes, and has the name
of "James Poor, Bangor," in Goodridge's own handwriting, on the back of it. The first thing
that strikes one in this account is, Why was not this discovery made at the time? Goodridge
was looking for notes, as well as gold. He was looking for Boston notes, for such he had lost.
He was looking for ten-dollar notes, for such he had lost. He was looking for notes which he
could recognize and identify. He would, therefore, naturally be particularly attentive to any
writing or marks upon such as he might find. Under these circumstances, a note is found in
the house of the supposed robbers. It is a Boston note, it is a ten-dollar note, it has writing
on the back of it; that writing is the name of his town and the name of one of his neighbors;
more than all, that writing is his own handwriting! Notwithstanding all this, neither Goodridge,
nor Upton, nor the sheriff, examined it so as to see whether it was Goodridge's money. Notwithstanding
it so fully resembled, in all points, the money they were looking for, and notwithstanding
they also saw writing on the back of it, which, they must know, if they read it, would probably
have shown where it came from, neither of them did so far examine it as to see any proof of
its being Goodridge's.

This is hardly to be believed. It must be a pretty strong faith in the prosecutor that could
credit this story. In every part of it, it is improbable and absurd. It is much more easy to
believe that the note was changed. There might have been, and there probably was, an uncurrent
or counterfeit note found in the drawer by Leavitt. He certainly did not at the time think
it to be Goodridge's, and he left it in the drawer where he found it. Before he saw it again,
the prosecutor had been in that room, and was in or near it when the sheriff was again called
in, and asked to put that bill in his pocket-book. How do the jury know that this was the same
note which Leavitt had before seen? Or suppose it was. Leavitt carried it to Coffin's; in the
evening he produced it, and, after having been handed about for some time among the company,
it turns out to be Goodridge's note, and to have upon it infallible marks of identity. How
do the jury know that a sleight of hand had not changed the note at Coffin's? It is sufficient
to say, the note might have been changed. It is not certain that this is the note which Leavitt
first found in the drawer, and this not being certain, it is not proof against the defendants.

Is it not extremely improbable, if the defendants are guilty, that they should deposit the
money in the places where it was found? Why should they put it in small parcels in so many
places, for no end but to multiply the chances of detection? Why, especially, should they put
a doubloon in their father's pocket-book? There is no evidence, nor any ground of suspicion,
that the father knew of the money being in his pocket-book. He swears he did not know it. His
general character is unimpeached, and there is nothing against his credit. The inquiry at Stratham
was calculated to elicit the truth; and, after all, there is not the slightest reason to suspect
that he knew that the doubloon was in his pocket-book. What could possibly induce the defendants
to place it there? No man can conjecture a reason. On the other hand, if this is a fraudulent
proceeding on the part of the prosecutor, this circumstance could be explained. He did not
know that the pocket-book, and the garment in which it was found, did not belong to one of
the defendants. He was as likely, therefore, to place it there as elsewhere. It is very material
to consider that nothing was found in that part of the house which belonged to the defendants.
Every thing was discovered in the father's apartments. They were not found, therefore, in the
possession of the defendants, any more than if they had been discovered in any other house
in the neighborhood. The two tenements, it is true, were under the same roof; but they were
not on that account the same tenements. They were as distinct as any other houses. Now, how
should it happen that the several parcels of money should all be found in the father's possession?
He is not suspected, certainly there is no reason to suspect him, of having had any hand either
in the commission of the robbery or the concealing of the goods. He swears he had no knowledge
of any part of this money being in his house. It is not easy to imagine how it came there,
unless it be supposed to have been put there by some one who did not know what part of the
house belonged to the defendants and what part did not.

The witnesses on the part of the prosecution have testified that the defendants, when arrested,
manifested great agitation and alarm; paleness overspread their faces, and drops of sweat stood
on their temples. This satisfied the witnesses of the defendants' guilt, and they now state
the circumstances as being indubitable proof. This argument manifests, in those who use it,
an equal want of sense and sensibility. It is precisely fitted to the feeling and the intellect
of a bum-bailiff. In a court of justice it deserves nothing but contempt. Is there nothing
that can agitate the frame or excite the blood but the consciousness of guilt? If the defendants
were innocent, would they not feel indignation at this unjust accusation? If they saw an attempt
to produce false evidence against them, would they not be angry? And, seeing the production
of such evidence, might they not feel fear and alarm? And have indignation, and anger, and
terror, no power to affect the human countenance or the human frame?

Miserable, miserable, indeed, is the reasoning which would infer any man's guilt from his agitation
when he found himself accused of a heinous offence; when he saw evidence which he might know
to be false and fraudulent brought against him; when his house was filled, from the garret
to the cellar, by those whom he might esteem as false witnesses; and when he himself, instead
of being at liberty to observe their conduct and watch their motions, was a prisoner in close
custody in his own house, with the fists of a catch-poll clenched upon his throat.

The defendants were at Newburyport the afternoon and evening of the robbery. For the greater
part of the time they show where they were, and what they were doing. Their proof, it is true,
does not apply to every moment. But when it is considered that, from the moment of their arrest,
they have been in close prison, perhaps they have shown as much as could be expected. Few men,
when called on afterwards, can remember, and fewer still can prove, how they have passed every
half-hour of an evening. At a reasonable hour they both came to the house where Laban had lodged
the night before. Nothing suspicious was observed in their manner or conversation. Is it probable
they would thus come unconcernedly into the company of others, from a field of robbery, and,
as they must have supposed, of murder, before they could have ascertained whether the stain
of blood was not on their garments? They remained in the place a part of the next day. The
town was alarmed; a strict inquiry was made of all strangers, and of the defendants among others.
Nothing suspicious was discovered. They avoided no inquiry, nor did they leave the town in
any haste. The jury has had an opportunity of seeing the defendants. Does their general appearance
indicate that hardihood which would enable them to act this cool, unconcerned part? Is it not
more likely they would have fled?

From the time of the robbery to the arrest, five or six weeks, the defendants were engaged
in their usual occupations. They are not found to have passed a dollar of money to any body.
They continued their ordinary habits of labor. No man saw money about them, nor any circumstance
that might lead to a suspicion that they had money. Nothing occurred tending in any degree
to excite suspicion against them. When arrested, and when all this array of evidence was brought
against them, and when they could hope in nothing but their innocence, immunity was offered
them again if they would confess. They were pressed, and urged, and allured, by every motive
which could be set before them, to acknowledge their participation in the offence, and to bring
out their accomplices. They steadily protested that they could confess nothing because they
knew nothing. In defiance of all the discoveries made in their house, they have trusted to
their innocence. On that, and on the candor and discernment of an enlightened jury, they still
rely.  If the jury are satisfied that there is the highest improbability that these persons
could have had any previous knowledge of Goodridge, or been concerned in any previous concert
to rob him; if their conduct that evening and the next day was marked by no circumstances of
suspicion; if from that moment until their arrest nothing appeared against them; if they neither
passed money, nor are found to have had money; if the manner of the search of their house,
and the circumstances attending it, excite strong suspicions of unfair and fraudulent practices;
if, in the hour of their utmost peril, no promises of safety could draw from the defendants
any confession affecting themselves or others, it will be for the jury to say whether they
can pronounce them guilty.

The Dartmouth College Case.

The general question is, whether the acts of the legislature of New Hampshire of the 27th of
June, and of the 18th and 26th of December, 1816, are valid and binding on the plaintiffs,
without their acceptance or assent.

The charter of 1769 created and established a corporation, to consist of twelve persons, and
no more; to be called the "Trustees of Dartmouth College."

After the institution thus created and constituted had existed, uninterruptedly and usefully,
nearly fifty years, the legislature of New Hampshire passed the acts in question.

The first act makes the twelve trustees under the charter, and nine other individuals, to be
appointed by the Governor and Council, a corporation, by a new name; and to this new corporation
transfers all the property, rights, powers, liberties, and privileges of the old corporation;
with further power to establish new colleges and an institute, and to apply all or any part
of the funds to these purposes; subject to the power and control of a board of twenty-five
overseers, to be appointed by the Governor and Council.

The second act makes further provisions for executing the objects of the first, and the last
act authorizes the defendant, the treasurer of the plaintiffs, to retain and hold their property,
against their will.

If these acts are valid, the old corporation is abolished, and a new one created. The first
act does, in fact, if it can have any effect, create a new corporation, and transfer to it
all the property and franchises of the old. The two corporations are not the same in anything
which essentially belongs to the existence of a corporation. They have different names, and
different powers, rights, and duties. Their organization is wholly different. The powers of
the corporation are not vested in the same, or similar hands. In one, the trustees are twelve,
and no more. In the other, they are twenty-one. In one, the power is in a single board. In
the other, it is divided between two boards. Although the act professes to include the old
trustees in the new corporation, yet that was without their assent, and against their remonstrance;
and no person can be compelled to be a member of such a corporation against his will. It was
neither expected nor intended that they should be members of the new corporation. The act itself
treats the old corporation as at an end, and, going on the ground that all its functions have
ceased, it provides for the first meeting and organization of the new corporation. It expressly
provides, also, that the new corporation shall have and hold all the property of the old; a
provision which would be quite unnecessary upon any other ground, than that the old corporation
was dissolved. But if it could be contended that the effect of these acts was not entirely
to abolish the old corporation, yet it is manifest that they impair and invade the rights,
property, and powers of the trustees under the charter, as a corporation, and the legal rights,
privileges, and immunities which belong to them, as individual members of the corporation.

The twelve trustees were the sole legal owners of all the property acquired under the charter.
By the acts, others are admitted, against their will, to be joint owners. The twelve individuals
who are trustees were possessed of all the franchises and immunities conferred by the charter.
By the acts, nine other trustees and twenty- five overseers are admitted, against their will,
to divide these franchises and immunities with them.

If, either as a corporation or as individuals, they have any legal rights, this forcible intrusion
of others violates those rights, as manifestly as an entire and complete ouster and dispossession.
These acts alter the whole constitution of the corporation. They affect the rights of the whole
body as a corporation, and the rights of the individuals who compose it. They revoke corporate
powers and franchises. They alienate and transfer the property of the college to others. By
the charter, the trustees had a right to fill vacancies in their own number. This is now taken
away. They were to consist of twelve, and, by express provision, of no more. This is altered.
They and their successors, appointed by themselves, were for ever to hold the property. The
legislature has found successors for them, before their seats are vacant. The powers and privileges
which the twelve were to exercise exclusively, are now to be exercised by others. By one of
the acts, they are subjected to heavy penalties if they exercise their offices, or any of those
powers and privileges granted them by charter, and which they had exercised for fifty years.
They are to be punished for not accepting the new grant and taking its benefits. This, it must
be confessed, is rather a summary mode of settling a question of constitutional right. Not
only are new trustees forced into the corporation, but new trusts and uses are created. The
college is turned into a university. Power is given to create new colleges, and, to authorize
any diversion of the funds which may be agreeable to the new boards, sufficient latitude is
given by the undefined power of establishing an institute. To these new colleges, and this
institute, the funds contributed by the founder, Dr. Wheelock, and by the original donors,
the Earl of Dartmouth and others, are to be applied, in plain and manifest disregard of the
uses to which they were given.

The president, one of the old trustees, had a right to his office, salary, and emoluments,
subject to the twelve trustees alone. His title to these is now changed, and he is made accountable
to new masters. So also all the professors and tutors. If the legislature can at pleasure make
these alterations and changes in the rights and privileges of the plaintiffs, it may, with
equal propriety, abolish these rights and privileges altogether. The same power which can do
any part of this work can accomplish the whole. And, indeed, the argument on which these acts
have been hitherto defended goes altogether on the ground, that this is such a corporation
as the legislature may abolish at pleasure; and that its members have no rights, liberties,
franchises, property, or privileges, which the legislature may not revoke, annul, alienate,
or transfer to others, whenever it sees fit.

It will be contended by the plaintiffs, that these acts are not valid and binding on them without
their assent,--

1. Because they are against common right, and the Constitution of New Hampshire.

2. Because they are repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.

I am aware of the limits which bound the jurisdiction of the court in this case, and that on
this record nothing can be decided but the single question, whether these acts are repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States. Yet it may assist in forming an opinion of their
true nature and character to compare them with those fundamental principles introduced into
the State governments for the purpose of limiting the exercise of the legislative power, and
which the Constitution of New Hampshire expresses with great fulness and accuracy.

