Junius.--Nobody can read, without being struck with the propriety of it, that beautiful passage
in the 8th letter--"Examine your own breast, Sir William, &c. &c. &c." A parallel passage may
however be found in Bevill Higgons's Short View of English History (temp. Hen. VI.), a work
written before 1700, and not published till thirty-four years afterwards:--

    "So weak and fallible is that admired maxim, 'Factum valet,
    quot fieri non debuit,' an excuse first invented to palliate
    the unfledged villainy of some men, who are ashamed to be
    knaves, yet have not the courage to be honest."

I have not quoted the whole of the passage from Junius, as I consider it to be in almost every
body's hands. I am collecting some curious, and I hope valuable, information about that work.

B.G.

Arabic Numerals.--Your correspondent T.S.D.'s account of a supposed date upon the Church of
St. Brelade, Jersey, brings to my mind a circumstance that once occurred to myself, which may,
perhaps, be amusing to date-hunters. Some years ago I visited a farm-house in the north of
England, whose owner had a taste for collecting curiosities of all sorts. Not the least valuable
of his collection was a splendidly carved oak bedstead, which he considered of great antiquity.
Its date, plainly marked upon the panels at the bottom of the front posts, was, he told me,
1111. On {359} examining this astounding date a little closely, I soon perceived that the two
middle strokes had a slight curvature, a tendency to approach the shape of an S, which distinguished
them from the two exterior lines. The date was, in fact, 1551; yet so small was the difference
of the figures, that the mistake was really a pardonable one.

Is your correspondent "E.V." acquainted with the History of Castle Acre Priory, published some
years ago? If my memory fails me not, there is a date given in that work, as found inscribed
on the plaster of the Priory wall, much more ancient than 1445.

Has the derivation of the first four Arabic numerals, and probably of the ninth, from the ancient
Egyptian hieratic and enchorial characters, for the ordinals corresponding with those numbers,
ever been noticed by writers upon the history of arithmetical notation? The correspondence
will be obvious to any one who refers to the table given in the 4th vol. of Sir G. Wilkinson's
Ancient Egyptians (3rd edit.), p. 198. 8vo. 1824.

ARNOT'S ELEMENTS OF PHYSICS.

LADY MARY FOX--IDEA OF A COUNTRY HOUSE.

ODD VOLUMES.

MAD. DE STAEL--CONSIDERATIONS ON THE FRENCH REVOLUTION, in 3 vols. Vol. II.

WORDSWORTH'S POETICAL WORKS, in 4 vols. Vol II.

JAMES' NAVAL HISTORY, in 4 vols. Vols. II. and III.

YOUNG'S ANNALS OF AGRICULTURE, Fortieth and Five remaining volumes.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS.

We are compelled to omit our usual Notes on Books, &c., as well as many interesting communications.

T.I. (Lincoln's Inn.) We fear there are mechanical difficulties (besides others) to prevent
our adopting the suggestion of our Correspondent.

The Library is open every day except Sunday, from eleven to six o'clock.

By order of the Committee,

J.G. COCHRANE, Secretary and Librarian.

March 9th, 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCHÆOLOGIA CAMBRENSIS, a RECORD of the ANTIQUITIES of WALES and its MARCHES, and the Journal
of "THE CAMBRIAN ARCHÆOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION," published Quarterly. Price 2s. 6d. No. 11. New
Series, will be published on the 1st. of April, containing Papers by J.O. Westwood, Rev. J.
Williams, W.W. Ffoulkes, E.A. Freeman (Architecture of Llandaff Cathedral), &c., &c., with
Illustrations by Jewitt.

Also, now completed, price 11s. cloth lettered, Vol. IV., First Series, for 1849. Vols. II.
and III. may still be had, price 11s. each, with numerous Illustrations on copper and wood.

