'Thus, for instance, it is found that in the region of the trade-winds, cinders from the craters
of volcanoes, and other objects, are carried through the higher regions of the air in a direction
exactly opposite to that in which the trade-wind itself is blowing below; and in this way cinders
from the Cosiguina, in Guatemala, frequently fall in the streets of Kingston (Jamaica), lying
to the north-east of Guatemala. Similar facts have been observed at the Peak of Teneriffe,
in the Straits of Magellan, and elsewhere.

'The importance of this subject with regard to aëro-locomotion can hardly be overrated; for
these currents, when clearly ascertained and correctly mapped out, would constitute so many
great natural routes, where the aëronaut would be borne onward in the required direction with
immense velocity, and without danger of encountering squalls or counter-currents.

'But here, fearful of exhausting the patience of our readers, we bring our somewhat lengthened
disquisitions to a close, and take our leave for the present of the tempting, though debatable
ground of the CUBIC HIGHWAY.'

A MEMOIR FOR THE MILLION.

On the meeting-line between a moorland and lowland district of Perthshire, stands an old baronial
seat, dignified with the name of castle, to which, no doubt, it was entitled long after the
date of its erection, in the fifteenth century, although no longer boasting of either the strength
or magnificence which such a name implies. Its position, however, is picturesque--standing
on the bank of a romantic and finely-wooded Highland glen, and commanding a view on one side
of a mountain-range, and on the other of a cultivated country, with its towns and villages
in the distance. The mansion is flanked on one side by a court-yard and 'louping-on-stane;'
and on the other, by a velvety bowling-green, stretching along to an antique garden of cut
yews and hollies overhanging the glen. It boasts, of course, its haunted chamber, and traditional
stories of love and murder; but we have not now to do with life or death above stairs, though
many a tale might be founded on truths 'stranger than fiction.' Our present purpose is with
the neighbourhood of the kitchen. There, too, we find some relics of olden times; a fireplace
which would legalise the Scottish invitation, to 'come in to the fire,' inasmuch as within
the chimney-arch was the seat of honour and comfort, where a dozen cronies could sit beside
the embers, while an ox might roast in front. From that cozy neuk did the old fiddler play
in the evening, when the spinning-wheels were put away, and the maids, generally tenants' daughters,
had their dance with the stragglers from the stables and cottages. Near the kitchen was a much
colder and more dismal place, that went by the name of 'the Pit'--a half-subterranean recess,
several steps lower than the kitchen, into which scarcely a ray of light penetrated through
the small 'bole' that was drilled in the massive walls for a window. The cheerless aspect of
the place seemed to confirm the tradition, that it had sometimes served of yore as a place
of involuntary restraint. Its present occupant, however, the son of a day-labourer, found no
fault with the accommodation it afforded him. He was a young boy, who cleaned shoes, scoured
knives, and received with great deference the commands of Daniel Don, the butler. This boy
was called John Dickson. The Pit was his domicile, as well as his work-room, and he made it
also a 'study;' for having earned a rushlight by running messages, or doing extra work for
his neighbours, he might be found at night, as long as the light would last, poring over a
book. In this way he had, unknown to others, while still a mere boy, read through that vast
quarry of erudition, Henry's 'Commentary on the Bible.'

Old James, the gardener, was a tolerable scholar, and a well-informed man, and took great pleasure
in encouraging young students; so, on discovering John Dickson's taste for books, he lent him
an old Latin grammar, recommending him to commit it to memory. This John did with praiseworthy
diligence, although, being written in a language he did not understand, he could make but little
use of his acquisition. Old James, however, may be forgiven for having set John to study after
the orthodox fashion of Ruddiman, for he had never been out of his own glen, and in those days
new ideas were long in penetrating to the country districts.

When John Dickson was promoted to assist in waiting at table, an incident occurred, which no
doubt had some influence on his dreams, if not on his fortunes. A stranger, in regimentals,
was at dinner one day, and being prepossessed by the lad's pleasing manners and expression
of face, he turned to him, and clapping him on the shoulder, said: 'I was once in your present
station, my boy, and if you are steady, and behave well, you may one day rise to be in mine.'
The speaker was Dr Miller, a physician in the army. John, however, had few dreams and little
ambition. He was not what is commonly called a genius; but he possessed sterling qualities
of head and heart, perseveringly cultivated his natural abilities, and invariably conducted
himself with the greatest propriety. It was no wonder, then, that he became a general favourite
in the family; and that, when he carried the game-bag for the gentlemen, they purposely made
long detours, and met him again at an appointed spot, in order to give him an hour at his book;
for John always had a book in his pocket for a spare moment. Once, indeed, this custom occasioned
some annoyance to his master, whom he had accompanied to a shooting-hut in the moors, nicknamed
'Grouse Hall,' where the unfortunate laird was detained by an intolerable fit of gout; a circumstance
not apt to engender patience and resignation, especially when, from the other side of the cloth
partition which divided the single apartment of the hut, he heard bursts of laughter pealing
forth in succession--for John Dickson had managed to carry off a copy of Don Quixote to the moors.

When the younger sons of the family were sent to college in Edinburgh, John was chosen to accompany
them. Let us now see how he conducted himself in this new and trying field; for trying it is.
Country lads, in coming to a large town, meet with many temptations, and by these, hundreds
of them fall. They cannot resist petty attractions to amusement and misspending of time. They
enjoy themselves while they should work. They take to fun, instead of to labour. Well; to which
did our hero attach himself? To regular, hard work, to be sure. He had the good sense to see,
that here was his chance of getting on in the world. While other lads were amusing themselves
at the theatre, or kicking their heels about the street, or hanging about the auction-rooms
in front of the college, John Dickson stuck hard to his books. He also availed himself of other
advantages connected with his situation. The tutor of the family in which he was employed was
John Barclay, afterwards the celebrated anatomist, whose valuable museum was bequeathed to
the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, on condition that they would build a hall, and
form a more extended collection, which has been fulfilled. At this time, Dr Barclay had commenced
his private lectures on anatomy, which soon became popular; and John made himself so useful
in the arrangement of the classroom, that the doctor was induced to encourage him to attend
the lectures, and assist in preparing the demonstrations. Thus Dickson spent many winters,
at once attendant and pupil, returning to the country in summer in his old capacity. By degrees,
he completed his medical education, obtaining gratis-tickets from the professors--a favour
sometimes extended to deserving students, and of which he was well worthy. Dr Barclay once
gave a good lesson to those who apply for such gratuitous favours for others. He was asked
by a certain bookseller to give a perpetual gratis-ticket for his class to a student then standing
in the shop, who could ill afford to pay the four-guinea fee. 'Most certainly,' said the doctor;
'I can never refuse in such a case. By the by, Mr ----, I want a few books; will you look them
out for me now?' and the doctor enumerated several standard medical works, which were produced
with great alacrity. He then selected four guineas' worth from among them, and handed them
over to the astonished student, along with a lecture-ticket, saying: 'Of course, Mr ---- intended
giving you the same value in books which I do in this ticket!' The bookseller, although a notoriously
parsimonious character, had not a word to say. Dr Barclay took great pride in collecting a
library, and invented the following device as a mark for his books: His initials were engraved
in the centre of an oval, at the top was the sun, with the motto--'I weary not;' below, was
a mountain, with 'I am firm;' and surrounding all, 'Excel if you can.'

These graphic mottos became the guiding-stars of John Dickson's career: he wearied not, nor
wavered in whatever pursuit he engaged; and it was to this indomitable industry that he owed
his success in life. His perseverance was displayed even in his amusements; he was fond of
music, but had not a sufficiently correct ear to play the violin well, yet he would not abandon
it, but scraped away year after year, in hopes of ultimate success, although in this instance
without attaining his object. In more important pursuits, his industry was amply rewarded;
and having taken his degree, we must now call the heretofore denizen of the Pit, Dr Dickson,
and record, that the students of the university, on his leaving Edinburgh, presented him with
a testimonial, to signify their appreciation of his valuable demonstrations in the class of
Practical Anatomy. Some of his preparations may still be seen in the Museum of the College
of Surgeons.

An appointment as assistant-surgeon in the navy was now procured for him; medical officers
being then in greater request than they are in these piping times of peace. With affectionate
regret, and not unmanly tears, he left the home that had sheltered him for so many and such
important years of his life, and towards which he ever evinced the warmest attachment. His
gratitude was not long in shewing itself practically. In a few years, he returned from abroad;
and on landing in Britain, heard that the son of his former benefactor, with whom he had been
on the most intimate terms, was desirous of leaving the army, and entering into partnership
with some medical man in England, for which a considerable sum of money was necessary. Dr Dickson
knew full well that there might be some difficulty in advancing the required amount to the
youngest of a family of fourteen; so he addressed a beautiful and touching letter to him--saying,
'that he had already, out of the savings of his pay and prize-money, bought an annuity for
his old mother, and had no one else to provide for. To you,' continued he, 'who always shared
your jelly-pieces with me, when we were boys, I owe a debt of gratitude, and to your family,
one which I can never repay. I trust you will not now refuse to share my earnings, but frankly
accept of L.800, to assist you in settling in life.' This noble offer was, from motives as
noble, declined, as well as the same sum, which Dickson now pressed upon his friend, as a loan;
but an affectionate correspondence was kept up between them until Dr Dickson's death, more
than thirty years afterwards.

