

A. Ach! Abermals!

W. Bist Du denn noch nicht satt?

A. Nein! (The other couple sit down, and MARGARET begins a retying of the cravat. Enter the
WIRTHIN and STEPHENSON, he imposing silence with a sign.) Mich hungert sehr, ich verhungre!

W. Oh, Du armes Kind! (Lays her head on his shoulder. Dumb-show between STEPHENSON and WIRTHIN.)
Und hungert es nicht mich? Du hast mir nicht einmal gesagt--

A. Dass ich Dich liebe? Mein Eigener! (Frau WIRTHIN threatens to faint--is supported by STEPHENSON.)
Hore mich nur an: Ich liebe Dich, ich liebe Dich--

Enter GRETCHEN.

GR. (Tears her hair.) Oh, dass ich in der Holle ware!

M. Ich liebe Dich, ich liebe Dich! Ah, ich bin so glucklich dass ich nicht schlafen kann, nicht
lesen kann, nicht reden kann, nicht--

A. Und ich! Ich bin auch so glucklich dass ich nicht speisen kann, nicht studieren, arbeiten,
denken, schreiben--

S. (To Wirthin--aside.) Oh, there isn't any mistake about it--Gretchen's just a rattling teacher!

WIRTHIN. (To Stephenson--aside.) I'll skin her alive when I get my hands on her!

M. Komm, alle Verliebte! (They jump up, join hands, and sing in chorus--) Du, Du, wie ich Dich
liebe, Du, Du, liebest auch mich! Die, die zartlichsten Triebe--

S. (Stepping forward.) Well! (The girls throw themselves upon his neck with enthusiasm.)

THE GIRLS. Why, father!

S. My darlings! (The young men hesitate a moment, they they add their embrace, flinging themselves
on Stephenson's neck, along with the girls.)

THE YOUNG MEN. Why, father!

S. (Struggling.) Oh, come, this is too thin!--too quick, I mean. Let go, you rascals!

GEO. We'll never let go till you put us on the family list.

M. Right! hold to him!

A. Cling to him, Will! (GRETCHEN rushes in and joins the general embrace, but is snatched away
by the WIRTHIN, crushed up against the wall, and threatened with destruction.)

S. (Suffocating.) All right, all right--have it your own way, you quartette of swindlers!

W. He's a darling! Three cheers for papa!

EVERYBODY. (Except Stephenson, who bows with hand on heart) Hip--hip--hip: hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!

GR. Der Tiger--ah-h-h!

WIRTHIN. Sei ruhig, you hussy!

S. Well, I've lost a couple of precious daughters, but I've gained a couple of precious scamps
to fill up the gap with; so it's all right. I'm satisfied, and everybody's forgiven--(With
mock threats at Gretchen.)

W. Oh, wir werden fur Dich sorgen--dur herrliches Gretchen!

GR. Danke schon!

M. (To Wirthin.) Und fur Sie auch; denn wenn Sie nicht so freundlich gewesen waren, krank zu
werden, wie waren wir je so glucklich geworden wie jetzt?

WIRTHIN. Well, dear, I was kind, but I didn't mean it. But I ain't sorry--not one bit--that
I ain't. (Tableau.)

S. Come, now, the situation is full of hope, and grace, and tender sentiment. If I had in the
least poetic gift, I know I could improvise under such an inspiration (each girl nudges her
sweetheart) something worthy to--to--Is there no poet among us? (Each youth turns solemnly
his back upon the other, and raises his hands in benediction over his sweetheart's bowed head.)

BOTH YOUTHS AT ONCE.

WIRTHIN. (Aside.) Why, the very cats in Germany know it!

(Curtain.)

(1) (EXPLANATORY.) I regard the idea of this play as a valuable invention. I call it the Patent
Universally-Applicable Automatically Adjustable Language Drama. This indicates that it is adjustable
to any tongue, and performable in any tongue. The English portions of the play are to remain
just as they are, permanently; but you change the foreign portions to any language you please,
at will. Do you see? You at once have the same old play in a new tongue. And you can keep changing
it from language to language, until your private theatrical pupils have become glib and at
home in the speech of all nations. Zum Beispiel, suppose we wish to adjust the play to the
French tongue. First, we give Mrs. Blumenthal and Gretchen French names. Next, we knock the
German Meisterschaft sentences out of the first scene, and replace them with sentences from
the French Meisterschaft--like this, for instance: 'Je voudrais faire des emplettes ce matin;
voulez-vous avoir l'obligeance de venir avec moi chez le tailleur francais?' And so on. Wherever
you find German, replace it with French, leaving the English parts undisturbed. When you come
to the long conversation in the second act, turn to any pamphlet of your French Meisterschaft,
and shovel in as much French talk on any subject as will fill up the gaps left by the expunged
German. Example--page 423, French Meisterschaft: On dirait qu'il va faire chaud. J'ai chaud.
J'ai extremement chaud. Ah! qu'il fait chaud! Il fait une chaleur etouffante! L'air est brulant.
Je meurs de chaleur. Il est presque impossible de supporter la chaleur. Cela vous fait transpirer.
Mettons-nous a l'ombre. Il fait du vent. Il fait un vent froid. Il fait un tres agreable pour
se promener aujourd'hui. And so on, all the way through. It is very easy to adjust the play
to any desired language. Anybody can do it.

MY BOYHOOD DREAMS

The dreams of my boyhood? No, they have not been realised. For all who are old, there is something
infinitely pathetic about the subject which you have chosen, for in no greyhead's case can
it suggest any but one thing--disappointment. Disappointment is its own reason for its pain:
the quality or dignity of the hope that failed is a matter aside. The dreamer's valuation of
the thing lost--not another man's--is the only standard to measure it by, and his grief for
it makes it large and great and fine, and is worthy of our reverence in all cases. We should
carefully remember that. There are sixteen hundred million people in the world. Of these there
is but a trifling number--in fact, only thirty-eight millions--who can understand why a person
should have an ambition to belong to the French army; and why, belonging to it, he should be
proud of that; and why, having got down that far, he should want to go on down, down, down
till he struck the bottom and got on the General Staff; and why, being stripped of this livery,
or set free and reinvested with his self-respect by any other quick and thorough process, let
it be what it might, he should wish to return to his strange serfage. But no matter: the estimate
put upon these things by the fifteen hundred and sixty millions is no proper measure of their
value: the proper measure, the just measure, is that which is put upon them by Dreyfus, and
is cipherable merely upon the littleness or the vastness of the disappointment which their
loss cost him. There you have it: the measure of the magnitude of a dream-failure is the measure
of the disappointment the failure cost the dreamer; the value, in others' eyes, of the thing
lost, has nothing to do with the matter. With this straightening out and classification of
the dreamer's position to help us, perhaps we can put ourselves in his place and respect his
dream--Dreyfus's, and the dreams our friends have cherished and reveal to us. Some that I call
to mind, some that have been revealed to me, are curious enough; but we may not smile at them,
for they were precious to the dreamers, and their failure has left scars which give them dignity
and pathos. With this theme in my mind, dear heads that were brown when they and mine were
young together rise old and white before me now, beseeching me to speak for them, and most
lovingly will I do it. Howells, Hay, Aldrich, Matthews, Stockton, Cable, Remus--how their young
hopes and ambitions come flooding back to my memory now, out of the vague far past, the beautiful
past, the lamented past! I remember it so well--that night we met together--it was in Boston,
and Mr. Fiends was there, and Mr. Osgood, Ralph Keeler, and Boyle O'Reilly, lost to us now
these many years--and under the seal of confidence revealed to each other what our boyhood
dreams had been: reams which had not as yet been blighted, but over which was stealing the
grey of the night that was to come--a night which we prophetically felt, and this feeling oppressed
us and made us sad. I remember that Howells's voice broke twice, and it was only with great
difficulty that he was able to go on; in the end he wept. For he had hoped to be an auctioneer.
He told of his early struggles to climb to his goal, and how at last he attained to within
a single step of the coveted summit. But there misfortune after misfortune assailed him, and
he went down, and down, and down, until now at last, weary and disheartened, he had for the
present given up the struggle and become the editor of the Atlantic Monthly. This was in 1830.
Seventy years are gone since, and where now is his dream? It will never be fulfilled. And it
is best so; he is no longer fitted for the position; no one would take him now; even if he
got it, he would not be able to do himself credit in it, on account of his deliberateness of
speech and lack of trained professional vivacity; he would be put on real estate, and would
have the pain of seeing younger and abler men intrusted with the furniture and other such goods--goods
which draw a mixed and intellectually low order of customers, who must be beguiled of their
bids by a vulgar and specialised humour and sparkle, accompanied with antics. But it is not
the thing lost that counts, but only the disappointment the loss brings to the dreamer that
had coveted that thing and had set his heart of hearts upon it, and when we remember this,
a great wave of sorrow for Howells rises in our breasts, and we wish for his sake that his
fate could have been different. At that time Hay's boyhood dream was not yet past hope of realisation,
but it was fading, dimming, wasting away, and the wind of a growing apprehension was blowing
cold over the perishing summer of his life. In the pride of his young ambition he had aspired
to be a steamboat mate; and in fancy saw himself dominating a forecastle some day on the Mississippi
and dictating terms to roustabouts in high and wounding terms. I look back now, from this far
distance of seventy years, and note with sorrow the stages of that dream's destruction. Hay's
history is but Howells's, with differences of detail. Hay climbed high toward his ideal; when
success seemed almost sure, his foot upon the very gang-plank, his eye upon the capstan, misfortune
came and his fall began. Down--down--down--ever down: Private Secretary to the President; Colonel
in the field; Charge d'Affaires in Paris; Charge d'Affaires in Vienna; Poet; Editor of the
Tribune; Biographer of Lincoln; Ambassador to England; and now at last there he lies--Secretary
of State, Head of Foreign Affairs. And he has fallen like Lucifer, never to rise again. And
his dream--where now is his dream? Gone down in blood and tears with the dream of the auctioneer.
And the young dream of Aldrich--where is that? I remember yet how he sat there that night fondling
it, petting it; seeing it recede and ever recede; trying to be reconciled and give it up, but
not able yet to bear the thought; for it had been his hope to be a horse-doctor. He also climbed
high, but, like the others, fell; then fell again, and yet again, and again and again. And
now at last he can fall no further. He is old now, he has ceased to struggle, and is only a
poet. No one would risk a horse with him now. His dream is over. Has any boyhood dream ever
been fulfilled? I must doubt it. Look at Brander Matthews. He wanted to be a cowboy. What is
he to-day? Nothing but a professor in a university. Will he ever be a cowboy? It is hardly
conceivable. Look at Stockton. What was Stockton's young dream? He hoped to be a barkeeper.