Happily, as in several other human institutions, there is more of good than of bad. The so-called
"seamy side" of cities is not like that of flour-bags,--equal in extent and importance to the
fair outer surface that meets the eye. Much as has been published of the depravity of Paris,
it is not that, but the splendid activity of her material and intellectual civilization, the
serious confronting of the heavy problems of humanity, the intelligent accumulation of the
treasures of the mind and the hand, legislation, literature, art, science, that impress the
intelligent visitor. Moreover, it is the annals of unhappy nations only that are said to be
interesting, and it is impossible that a quick human interest should not attach to the contemplation
of this capital which has attacked so many problems, maintained so many struggles, and endured
such crushing reverses. In the light of her most troubled history the import becomes clear
of the galley on her shield, and her motto: "Floats, but sinks not." But few capitals have
been more frequently, apparently, on the point of being submerged. Even as these lines are
being written, it is agitated by the protracted and cumulating effects of a military and social
agitation which, in the language of the President of the Cabinet of Ministers, "is deplorable,
which paralyzes all commerce and creates a situation intolerable to all."

Indeed, it may be said that the present moment is the most critical, the most dramatic, in
the long history of the city and the nation, and that an entirely new interest will henceforth
attach itself to this crowned capital which sees herself in the inevitable future forever uncrowned.
Never before has the pitiless march of events, the pitiless accumulation of irrefutable evidence,
the testimony of so many observers, at home and abroad, so seemed to demonstrate that all the
methods of government had been exhausted, and that the nation had attained her summit of power
and was doomed to steady decline. Down to Louis XIV, her hope was thought to lie in the consolidation
of the royal authority and the suppression of the feudal power of the nobles; down to 1789,
in the tiers état and the States-General; after the Commune of 1871, in the maintenance of
a Republic supported by universal suffrage. The ideals of 1830 and of 1848 have been practically
attained; there are, finally, no new and more liberal political expedients to hope for,--and
never has France seen herself so distanced by her neighbors. Her contemporary literature groans
with the accumulation of these facts--from the ineptitude of her rulers, national and colonial,
down to the dependence upon the foreigner for wood for her street pavements and the canned
provisions for her army. Behind that "gap in the Vosges" upon which, as one of her statesmen
remarks, she cannot forever fix her gaze, she sees her great and hated rival doubling in power.
In 1860, Germany had the same population as France; to-day, she has that of France and Spain
combined. "Never has such a displacement of power been so quickly produced between two rival
peoples. And no one among us seems to regard it, though not one of the problems which torment
us is as grave as this one. Our agriculture, our industry, our commerce decline; we seem to
be in decadence! How could it be otherwise? There are, in the neighboring hive, beyond the
Rhine, sixteen millions of workers who were not there forty years ago,--that is the explanation
of the progress of our neighbors as well as of the stagnation of our own activity. All the
more that the quality of the French tends to diminish with their quantity; ... we can foresee
the day when there will be two Germans against one Frenchman, and this prospect fills us with
fear for the future of our country, for we cannot comfort ourselves with illusions, we cannot
believe in the perpetual peace, we know that history is a Vie Victis continual."

Therefore, let us hasten to contemplate this great and most admirable Babylon before Cyrus comes.

Paris, Rue Boissonade.

INTRODUCTION

GALLO-ROMAN AND PRE-MEDIÆVAL PERIODS

Lucotocia, says that somewhat inexact geographer, Strabo, "is the city of the Parisii, who
dwell along the river Seine, and inhabit an island formed by the river." Ptolemy, who has been
thought to have been somewhat better informed concerning the Parisii than with regard to any
of the other small tribes of Gaul, calls their capital LUCOTECIA; but both they and their town
appear for the first time in history fifty-three years before the birth of Christ, when Cæsar,
in his Commentaries, relates, himself, that he summoned a general assembly of the Gauls at
LUTETIA, the capital of the Parisii. At this date, he was already master of the greater part
of the country now called France. More than four hundred years later, Julian, surnamed the
Apostate, nephew of Constantine the Great, after having passed more than two years in this
city, which he called "his dear LEUCETIA," was proclaimed emperor here by his soldiers, who
refused to obey the orders of Constantius and return to the East. It is surmised by the scholars
that the imperial author of the Misopogon adopted this form of the name of the town on the
Seine through an affectation of deriving it from the Greek, in which language he wrote, and,
as is still evident in those of his works which have survived, in a style remarkably pure.

Lutetia, of which the modern French make Lutèce, is supposed to have been derived from the
Celtic louk-teih, which signified the place of morasses; and the name of the Parisii from the
Celtic par, a species of boat, and gwys, in composition ys, man, whence parys, boatmen,--these
islanders being supposed to have been skilful navigators. But they are said to have called
themselves Loutouchezi,--that is to say, a residence in the midst of the waters. Other etymologists
cast doubts upon all these deductions, and the matter is not very important. The early Parisians
were one of the smallest of the Gaulish tribes, and preferred the islands to the mainland as
a safer place of residence; they were surrounded by the Carnutes, Senones, and other, stronger
people whose names have not been perpetuated. Of their ten islands and sand-banks, which were
preserved until late in the Middle Ages, there are now only two remaining, the Ile Saint-Louis
and Ile de la Cité. The ancient town, like the modern one, lay in the centre of a "tertiary"
basin, about sixty-five mètres, or two hundred and ten feet, above the level of the sea, broken
here and there by low hills. The modern historian, Duruy, quotes Strabo as finding a proof
of divine providence in the fortunate configuration of the soil of Gaul; and that writer testifies
that the whole country was inhabited, even in the marshes and woods. "The cause of this is,
however, rather a dense population than the industry of the inhabitants. For the women there
are both very prolific and excellent nurses, while the men devote themselves rather to war
than to husbandry."

The antiquity of the inhabitants of Gaul is now pushed back by the learned far beyond the days
of Cæsar. M. A. Thieullen, in two communications addressed to the Société d'anthropologie at
Paris (January and February, 1898), maintained that the chipped flint arrow-heads found at
Chelles and Saint-Acheul, which have been considered as the earliest works of prehistoric man,
are, in reality, in common with the polished stone hatchets of the Neolithic age, the products
of an industry in a high state of development, the result of successive essays by numberless
generations. In this theory he is supported by other scientists, among them the English geologist,
Prestwich; and in this insistence upon the artistic quality of the chipped and polished flints
and the prodigious number of rudimentary utensils which have preceded and accompanied them
is found another argument in favor of the great antiquity of man and his existence in the tertiary
period. The soil of Paris has furnished many of these superior flints, and the comparative
state of civilization to which the locality early attained is further testified to by the discovery,
in the early months of this year, 1898, by an enterprising proprietor on the edge of the forest
of Fontainebleau, of the site of a prehistoric pottery on his grounds. This locality, opposite
the village of Ecuelle, was already noted for the menhir, or prehistoric upright stone, standing
on the right bank of the canal. The ancient potteries seem to have occupied a space about five
hundred mètres in length and two hundred in width; at the depth of sixty-five or seventy centimètres
below the surface there is found "a black sand, burned, beaten down, trodden, which gives forth
a resonant sound when attacked by the pick-axe; this arises from the fact that it has been,
through a long series of centuries, tormented by the incessant passage of men and the innumerable
fires of the furnaces." From the specimens of pottery extracted from this sand, it is concluded
that this manufactory had been maintained from the Neolithic age down to the Gallo-Roman period.
In the little village of La Mouthe, in the department of the Dordogne, farther south, have
been discovered within the last few years, in a cavern, very curious and not unskilful outline
drawings on the rock, sometimes touched up with color, of now extinct animals,--the extreme
age of these works of art being demonstrated by the fact that they are in many cases partially
covered with stalactites. The learned scientists who have uncovered and photographed these
incised drawings conclude, from their appearance and from the fragments of animals' bones found
in the cavern, that they are the work of men of the Neolithic age and the Palæolithic, which
preceded it. In short, there is every reason to believe, on the strength of all the testimony
which modern science has wrested from the unwilling records of the past, that the earliest
inhabitants of the islands of the Seine were contemporary with the mammoth, the cave-bear,
the auroch, and the rhinoceros with cleft nostrils.

