Dr. Muller, the Government Botanist, Director of the Botanic Garden at Melbourne, in his report
to both Houses of the Legislature of Victoria, April 15th, 1863, says, "A series of all the
plants collected during Mr. J.M. Stuart's last expedition was presented by the Hon. H. Strangways,
Commissioner of Crown Lands for South Australia, and those of the former expeditions of that
highly distinguished explorer, by the late J. Chambers, Esquire, of North Adelaide." Of this
collection, Dr. Muller has furnished a systematic enumeration, which will be found in the Appendix.
This enumeration must not, however, be accepted as final, for Dr. Muller has forwarded all
the specimens to England for the inspection of Mr. Bentham, the learned President of the Linnaean
Society of London, who is now elaborating his great and exhaustive work on the Flora of Australia,
the second volume of which will shortly be before the public.

WILLIAM HARDMAN.

CONTENTS.

JOURNAL OF MR. STUART'S EXPEDITION TO THE NORTH-WEST. MAY TO SEPTEMBER, 1858.

JOURNAL OF MR. STUART'S SECOND EXPEDITION (IN THE VICINITY OF LAKE TORRENS). APRIL TO JULY, 1859.

JOURNAL OF MR. STUART'S THIRD EXPEDITION (IN THE VICINITY OF LAKE TORRENS). NOVEMBER, 1859,
TO JANUARY, 1860.

JOURNAL OF MR. STUART'S FOURTH EXPEDITION (FIXING THE CENTRE OF THE CONTINENT). FROM MARCH
TO SEPTEMBER, 1860.

JOURNAL OF MR. STUART'S FIFTH EXPEDITION. FROM NOVEMBER, 1860, TO SEPTEMBER, 1861.

JOURNAL OF MR. STUART'S SUCCESSFUL EXPEDITION ACROSS THE CONTINENT OF AUSTRALIA. FROM DECEMBER,
1861, TO DECEMBER, 1862.

APPENDIX.

(LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

PORTRAIT OF JOHN MACDOUALL STUART. Adelaide, April 1863. Professor Hall. Photograph.

SKETCH MAP OF AUSTRALIA, SHOWING THE POSITION OF MR. STUART'S ROUTE.

NORTH-WEST OF STUART'S CREEK.

NORTH-WEST POINT OF LAKE TORRENS.

THE HERMIT HILL AND FINNISS SPRINGS.

ELIZABETH SPRINGS.

SOUTH SHORE OF LAKE EYRE.

CHAMBERS PILLAR.

CENTRAL MOUNT STUART.

ATTACK CREEK.

BRINKLEY BLUFF.

CHAMBERS CREEK.

TABLE LAND AND VALLEY OF THE ADELAIDE.

PLANTING THE FLAG ON THE SHORES OF THE INDIAN OCEAN.)

EXPLORATIONS IN AUSTRALIA.

On the 14th of May, 1858, Mr. Stuart started from Oratunga (the head station of Mr. John Chambers),
accompanied by Mr. Barker, with six horses, and all that was requisite (with one important
exception, as will be seen hereafter), for an excursion to the north-west of Swinden's Country.
They arrived at Aroona the same evening. On the following day (the 15th) they made Morleeanna
Creek, and reached Ootaina on the 16th, about 7 p.m. Here they remained for a couple of days,
as sufficient rain had not fallen to enable them to proceed. On the afternoon of the 19th they
arrived at Mr. Sleep's, who informed them that Mr. M. Campbell had returned from the West,
being hard pushed for water; very little rain having fallen to the west. The next day (20th)
Mr. Stuart arrived at Mr. Louden's, but, in consequence of some difficulties about the horses,
he returned to Ootaina. Various preparations, combined with want of rain, compelled him to
delay his start until the 10th of June. Here the journal commences:--

Thursday, 10th June, 1858. Started from Ootaina at 1 p.m. for Beda. Camped on the plain, about
thirteen miles from Mount Eyre.

Friday, 11th June, West Plain. Made Mudleealpa at 11 a.m. The horses would not drink the water.
Proceeded for about five miles towards Beda. The plains are fearfully dry; they have the appearance
as if no rain had fallen here for a long time, and I am very much afraid there will be no water
at Beda. If such should be the case, the horses will suffer too much in the beginning of their
journey to be without a drink to-night. I think it will be best to return to Mudleealpa, leave
our saddles, rations, etc. there, and drive the horses back to water. I sent Mr. Forster back
with them, telling him if he can find no water between this and Mr. Sleep's, to take them there,
remain for the night, give them a drink in the morning, and return; we shall then be able to
make a fresh start to-morrow. Bearings: Mount Arden, 154 degrees 30 minutes; Mount Eyre, 77
degrees 30 minutes; Beda Hill, 272 degrees; Mount Elder, 64 degrees 50 minutes; Dutchman's
Stern, 162 degrees 15 minutes.

Saturday, 12th June, Mudleealpa. In examining the creek a little higher up, we found another
well. By cleaning it out, the water is drinkable. The horses did not arrive until it was too
late to start, and having water here now, that they can drink, we camped here another night.

Sunday, 13th June, Mudleealpa. Started for Beda. Some of the horses would not drink the water,
and others drank very little: they will be glad to drink far worse than this before they come
back, or I am much mistaken. Arrived at Beda at sundown. I was right in my opinion; no fresh
water to be found; nothing but salt, salter than the sea. I can see nothing of Mr. Babbage's*
encampment; he must be higher up the creek. All the country we have come over to-day is very
dry. (* It will probably be recollected that Mr. Babbage was sent out by the Government to
make a north-west course through the continent, but, when at the Elizabeth, he made an unaccountable
detour, and found himself at Port Augusta, his original starting-point. On my return from this
journey he called on me at Mount Arden, when I furnished him with such information as he required,
and he again started, and made Chambers' Creek, which I had previously found and named after
my old friend, Mr. James Chambers, but which he called Stuart's Creek in acknowledgment of
my information, etc. J. McD. Stuart.)

Monday, 14th June, Beda. This morning we have searched all round, but can find no fresh water,
although there are numerous places that would retain water if any quantity had fallen. Mr.
Forster, whom I had sent up the creek to Mr. Babbage's, to inquire if there was any water at
Pernatta, has returned with the information that Mr. B. was up there with all his horses, and
that there was still a little water, but not much. Started at 11.30 a.m. for that place; camped
in the sand hills one hour after dark. Here we found some pig-faces* which the horses eat freely.
(* These pig-faces belong to the Mesembryaceae, of which the common ice-plant of our gardens
is an example.) There is a great deal of moisture in them, and they are a first-rate thing
for thirsty horses; besides, they have a powerful diuretic effect. I was unable to fix Beda
Hill, all my time being taken up in looking for water, but I hope to get its position at Pernatta.
The country was very heavy--sand hills.

Tuesday, 15th June, Sand Hills. Started at break of day for Pernatta. About 10 a.m. met Mr.
Babbage's two men returning with some of the horses for rations. They informed me that the
water was nearly all gone, but that there was plenty in the Elizabeth, nineteen miles from
Pernatta. I intended to keep on the track, but our black insisted that Pernatta lay through
a gap, and not round the bluff. I allowed him to have his own way. Our route was through a
very stony saddle. When there we saw a gum creek, and made for it; when we arrived at the creek
he told us that was Pernatta. We looked for water, and found a little hole, which, to our great
disappointment, contained salt water. Could see nothing of Mr. Babbage's camp. I then asked
our black where there was another water; he said, "Down the creek," which we followed. He took
us to five or six water holes, with native names, every one dry. The last one he called Yolticourie.
It being now within an hour of sundown, I would follow him no longer, but unsaddled, and told
Mr. Forster to take the black and the horses, and to steer for the bluff; if he found no water
between, to intersect Mr. Babbage's tracks, and follow them up and get water. I remained with
our provisions. The black fellow evidently does not know the country. I am sorry that I have
taken him with me. I think I shall send him back; he is of little use in assisting to get the
horses in the morning.

Wednesday, 16th June, Yolticourie. The horses have returned; they found no water last night;
they were obliged to camp for the night, it being so dark, but they found Mr. Babbage's camp
very early. The horses drank all the water. I was wrong in blaming the black fellow; he took
us to the RIGHT Pernatta. It is another water that Mr. B. is encamped at. He moves to-day for
the Elizabeth, which I also will do. He found the remains of poor Coulthard yesterday. We must
have passed quite close to them in our search for water. He has sent for me to come and assist
at the burial. It being so late in the day (12 o'clock), and the horses requiring more water,
and he having four men besides himself, I do not see that I can be of any use, and it might
cause me to lose another day, and the horses to be another night without water, which would
be an injury to them, they not having had sufficient this morning. Mr. B. also sent to say
that he would accompany me to the Elizabeth. I have delayed an hour for him, and he has not
yet made his appearance; it being now 1 o'clock, and having to travel seventeen miles, I can
wait no longer. Started for Bottle Hill; arrived on the south side of the hill an hour and
a half before sundown, found some water and plenty of grass; encamped for the night. Distance
to-day, seventeen miles. The former part of the journey was over very stony country; the latter
part very heavy sand hills.

Thursday, 17th June, Bottle Hill. Got on the top of Bottle Hill to take bearings, but was disappointed;
could see no hill except one, which was either Mount Deception or Mount North-west; the bearing
was 51 degrees 30 minutes. There is a small cone of stones on the top, and a flat stone on
the top of it, with the names of Louden and Burtt. From here I saw the gum trees in the Elizabeth;
course to them 325 degrees 30 minutes, seven miles to the creek. The country from the hill
here is of the very worst description--nothing but sand and salt bush.

Friday, 18th June, The Elizabeth. We must rest our horses to-day, they have not yet recovered
from their long thirst. I am quite disappointed with this creek and the surrounding country.
The water is not permanent, it is only rain water; since we arrived yesterday it has shrunk
a great deal. There are small plains on each side from a quarter to half a mile broad with
salt bush; the hills are very stony with a little salt bush, and destitute of timber, except
the few gum-trees in the creek and the mulga bushes in the sand hills.

Saturday, 19th June, The Elizabeth. The sky was quite overcast with cloud during the night,
and a few drops of rain fell, but of no consequence. Started at 9.30 a.m., on a bearing of
308 degrees for six miles; changed the bearing to 355 degrees for one mile and a half; next
bearing 328 degrees for four miles, to the north side of a dry swamp; next bearing 4 degrees
for ten miles and a half; next bearing 350 degrees for four miles to a sand hill. Camped. Distance
to-day, twenty-five miles, over a very bad country, with large fragments of a hard flinty stone
covering the surface. Salt bush with small sand hills. No water.

Sunday, 20th June, Sand Hill. Started at 9 a.m., on a course of 25 degrees for sixteen miles.
At 1 p.m., came upon a creek, in which I thought there might be water; examined it and found
two water holes, with plenty of grass upon their banks. The water is not permanent. Our course
to-day has been across stony plains (covered on the surface with fragments resembling hard
white quartz), with sand hills about two miles broad dividing them. The black did not know
of this water; I am very doubtful of his knowing anything of the country. The stony plains
are surrounded by high heavy sand hills, especially to the west and north-west; I dare not
attempt to get through them without rain. They are much higher than the country that I am travelling
through. It seems as if there had been no rain for twelve months, every thing is so dried and
parched up. On further examination of the creek we have found a large hole of clear water,
with rushes growing round it; I almost think it is permanent, and intend to run the risk of
falling back upon it should I be forced to retreat and wait for rain. The creek seems to drain
the large stony plains that we crossed; the water is three and a half feet deep, ten yards
wide, by forty yards long.

Monday, 21st June, Water Creek. Started at 9.30 a.m. on a course of 25 degrees. At a mile passed
a small table-topped hill to the west of our line; at three miles and a half crossed the creek;
at four miles passed another table-topped hill connected with the low range to the east, and
passed the first ironstone hill; at seven miles changed to 55 degrees; at eight miles halted
at a large permanent water hole (Andamoka). I can with safety say that this is permanent; it
is a splendid water hole, nearly as large as the one at the mouth of the gorge in the John.
The low range to the east of our course, and running nearly parallel with it, is composed of
conglomerate, quartz, and a little ironstone. Part of to-day's journey was over low undulating
sandy and very well grassed country. There seems to have been a little rain here lately; the
grass is springing beautifully. At eleven miles we came upon a salt lagoon (Wealaroo) two miles
long by one broad. From the north end of it, on a bearing of 55 degrees, one mile and a half
will strike Andamoka. I think we have now left the western sand hills behind us; and now that
we have permanent water to fall back on, I shall strike into the north-west to-morrow. The
distance travelled to-day was fifteen miles. The country around this water consists of bold
stony rises and sand, with salt bush and grass; no timber except mulga and a few myall bushes
in the creek. On an examination of the creek, we have found salt water above and below this
hole. In one place above there are cakes of salt one inch and a half thick, a convincing proof
that this is supplied by springs.

Tuesday, 22nd June, Andamoka. Started on a bearing of 342 degrees. At seven miles and a half,
crossed a low stony range running east-north-east and west-south-west, which turned out to
be table land, with sand hills crossing our line, bearing to a high range east of us 93 degrees
30 minutes. About eight miles in the same direction there is the appearance of a long salt
lake. At nine miles and a half, on a sand hill, I obtained the following bearings: Mount North-west,
60 degrees 30 minutes; Mount Deception, 95 degrees. At eleven miles and a half passed a large
reedy swamp on our left, dry. At seventeen miles sand hills ceased. At eighteen miles and a
half the sand hills again commenced, and we changed our course to north for three miles. Camped
for the night at a creek of permanent water, very good. The last four miles of to-day's journey
have been over very stony rises with salt bush and a little grass.

Wednesday, 23rd June, Permanent Water Creek. The horses had strayed so far that we did not
get a start until 10 a.m. Bearing to-day, 318 degrees. At two miles crossed a tea-tree creek,
in which there is water, coming from the stony rises, and running to the north of east. At
six miles the sand hills again commence. To this place we have come over a stony plain, covered
on the surface with fragments of limestone, quartz, and ironstone, with salt bush and grass.
In a watery season it must be well covered with grass; the old grass is lying between the salt
bushes. We have a view of part of the lake (Torrens) bearing north-east about fifteen or twenty
miles from us; to the west again the stony rises, apparently more open. At ten miles, in the
sand hills, we have again a view of Flinders range. The bearings are: Mount North-west, 78
degrees 35 minutes; Mount Deception, 107 degrees. At fourteen and a half miles we found a clay-pan
of water, with beautiful green feed for the horses. As we don't know when we shall find more
water, and as Forster has a damper to bake, I decide to camp for the rest of the day. Our route
has lain over heavy sand hills for the last eight miles.

Thursday, 24th June, Sand Hills. At 8.30 we left on a course of 340 degrees, commencing with
about two miles of rather heavy sand hills. At eight miles these sand hills diminished, and
the valleys between them became much wider--both sand hills and valleys being well covered
with grass and salt bush, with courses of lime and ironstone cropping out and running east
and west. At twelve miles changed our course to 79 degrees, to examine a gum creek (Yarraout),
which we ran down for water, but did not obtain it before four miles, when we found a small
hole of rain water. This creek seems to be a hunting-ground of the natives, as we saw a great
many summer worleys on its banks. They had evidently been here to-day, for, a little above
where we first struck the creek, we saw some smoke, but on following it up, we found they had
gone; most likely they had seen us and run away. The latter part of our journey to-day was
over a stony plain, bounded on the west by the stony table land with the sand hills on the
top. All this country seems to have been under water, and is most likely the bed of Lake Torrens,
or Captain Sturt's inland sea. In travelling over the plains, one is reminded of going over
a rough, gravelly beach; the stones are all rounded and smooth. Distance to-day, thirty miles.

Friday, 25th June, Yarraout Gum Creek. Started at 9.40 from the point where we first struck
the creek last night, bearing 20 degrees for two miles, thence 61 degrees for one mile to a
high sand hill, thence 39 degrees for one mile to a stony rise. My doubt of the black fellow's
knowledge of the country is now confirmed; he seems to be quite lost, and knows nothing of
the country, except what he has heard other blacks relate; he is quite bewildered and points
all round when I ask him the direction of Wingillpin. I have determined to push into the westward,
keeping a little north of west. Bearing 292 degrees for five miles, sand hills; thence 327
degrees to a table-hill nine miles. Camped without water. Our route to-day has been through
sand hills, with a few miles of stones and dry reedy swamp, all well grassed, but no water.
We came across some natives, who kept a long distance off. I sent our black up to them, to
ask in which direction Wingillpin lay. They pointed to the course I was then steering, and
said, "Five sleeps." They would not come near to us. About three-quarters of an hour afterwards
I came suddenly upon another native, who was hunting in the sand hills. My attention being
engaged in keeping the bearing, I did not observe him until he moved, but I pulled up at once,
lest he should run away, and called to him. What he imagined I was I do not know; but when
he turned round and saw me, I never beheld a finer picture of astonishment and fear. He was
a fine muscular fellow, about six feet in height, and stood as if riveted to the spot, with
his mouth wide open, and his eyes staring. I sent our black forward to speak with him, but
omitted to tell him to dismount. The terrified native remained motionless, allowing our black
to ride within a few yards of him, when, in an instant, he threw down his waddies, and jumped
up into a mulga bush as high as he could, one foot being about three feet from the ground,
and the other about two feet higher, and kept waving us off with his hand as we advanced. I
expected every moment to see the bush break with his weight. When close under the bush, I told
our black to inquire if he were a Wingillpin native. He was so frightened he could not utter
a word, and trembled from head to foot. We then asked him where Wingillpin was. He mustered
courage to let go one hand, and emphatically snapping his fingers in a north-west direction,
again waved us off. I take this emphatic snapping of his fingers to mean a long distance. Probably
this Wingillpin may be Cooper's Creek. We then left him, and proceeded on our way through the
sand hills. About an hour before sunset, we came in full sight of a number of tent and table-topped
hills to the north-west, the stony table land being to the south of us, and the dip of the
country still towards Lake Torrens. I shall keep a little more to the west to-morrow if possible,
to get the fall of the country the other way. The horses' shoes have been worn quite thin by
the stones, and will not last above a day or two. Nay, some of the poor animals are already
shoeless. It is most unfortunate that we did not bring another set with us. Distance to-day,
twenty-four miles.

Saturday, 26th June, Edge of Plain. Started at 9.30 a.m., on a bearing of 314 degrees 30 minutes,
over an undulating plain, with low sand hills and wide valleys, with plenty of grass and salt
bush. After ten miles the sand hills ceased, and at thirteen miles we reached the point of
the stony table land. Here we saw, to the north-north-west, what was apparently a large gum
creek, running north-east and south-west. Changing our bearing to 285 degrees, after seven
miles of very bad stony plain, thinly covered with salt bush and grass, we came upon the creek,
and found long reaches of permanent water, divided here and there by only a few yards of rocks,
and bordered by reeds and rushes. The water hole, by which we camped, is from forty to fifty
feet wide, and half a mile in length; the water is excellent, and I could see small fish in
it about two inches long. About ten miles down the creek the country seems to be more open,
and the gum-trees much larger, and in a distant bend of the creek I can perceive a large body
of water. The first of the seven or eight tent-like hills that were to the east of our route
to-day presents a somewhat remarkable appearance. Of a conical form, it comes to a point like
a Chinaman's hat, and is encircled near the top by a black ring, while some rocks resembling
a white tower crown the summit. Distance to-day, twenty miles.

Sunday, 27th June, Large Water Creek. Cloudy morning, with prospect of rain. A swan visited
the water hole last night, and to-day we have seen both the mountain duck and the large black
duck. Having a shoe to fix upon Jersey, and my courses to map down, we did not get a start
until 10 o'clock, and we were obliged to stop early in consequence of the grey mare getting
so lame that we were unable to proceed. We had an old shoe or two, and Mr. Forster managed
to get one on the mare. We started to-day on a bearing of 270 degrees for eight miles to a
low flat-topped hill, when we changed to 220 degrees for five miles to a gum creek with rain
water. About five miles to the north of our line there are flat-topped ranges, running north-east.
The main creek runs on the south side of this course, and nearly parallel to it. Further to
the south, at a distance of about ten miles, is still the stony table land with the sand hills.
The country is fearfully stony, but improves a little in grass as we get west. It seems to
be well watered. Distance to-day, about twelve miles.

Monday, 28th June, Gum Creek. There has been a little rain during the night, and it is still
coming down. As I am so far north, I regret that I am unable to go a little further, fearing
the lameness of the horses from the stony nature of the country. I intend to follow the creek
up, if it comes from the west, or a little to the north of west, to see if I cannot make the
fall of the country to the south-west, and get on a better road for the horses. We started
on a bearing of 305 degrees, but after a mile and a half, finding the creek wind too much to
the north, we changed our course to 287 degrees for five miles to a small flat-topped hill.
Changed our bearing again to 281 degrees for twenty-two miles to a tent hill, on the south
side of which we camped. This part of the country is very stony and bad, with salt bush and
very little grass. It has evidently been the course of a large water at some time, and reminded
me of the stony desert of Captain Sturt. Bleak, barren, and desolate, it grows no timber, so
that we scarcely can find sufficient wood to boil our quart pot. The rain, which poured down
upon us all day, so softened the ground that the horses could tread the stones into it, and
we got along much better than we expected. Distance to-day, twenty-eight miles and a half.

Tuesday, 29th June, South Side of Tent Hill. Started at 8.30 a.m. on a bearing of 305 degrees.
At eight miles crossed a gum creek, with polyganum, running to the north. At twelve miles crossed
another, trending in the same direction. These creeks are wide and formed into numerous channels.
I expected to have done thirty miles to-day, but am disappointed, for we were obliged to halt
early, after having gone only eighteen miles, as my horse was quite lame. How much do we feel
the want of another set of horse-shoes! We have, however, still got an old shoe left, which
is put on this afternoon. It had continued raining all last night, but not heavily, and cleared
off in the morning shortly after we started. Our travelling to-day has been still very stony,
over stony rises; the stony table land that has been all along on our left is now trending
more to the south-west. The country is more open: in looking at it from one of the rises it
has the appearance of an immense plain, studded with isolated flat-topped hills. The last eight
miles is better grassed and has more salt bush. Camped on a small creek in the stony rises.
Distance to-day, eighteen miles.

Wednesday, 30th June, Stony Rises. We had a little rain in the former part of the night, and
a very heavy dew in the morning. Started at 9.30 a.m., bearing 305 degrees; at five miles crossed
the upper part of a gum creek, and at twelve miles ascended a high flat-topped hill, commanding
a view of an immense stony plain, but it is so hazy that we can see nothing beyond ten miles.
From this hill we changed our course to 309 degrees to a saddle in the next range. At four
miles halted at a gum creek, with plenty of green feed. Made a very short journey to-day in
consequence of the horses being quite lame. In addition to their want of shoes, a stiff, tenacious
brown clay adhered to the hoof, and picked up the small round stones, which pressed on the
frog of the foot. These pebbles were as firmly packed as if they had been put in with cement,
so that we had hard work to keep the hoofs clear. Distance travelled, sixteen miles. Weather
showery.

Thursday, 1st July, Gum Greek. The horses have had such poor food for the last week that I
shall rest them to-day. About half a mile below us there is a large water hole a quarter of
a mile long, with a number of black ducks upon it, but they are very shy. It rained very heavily
and without intermission all last night and to-day. This creek is visited by a great many natives.
We saw them making away as we approached.

