THE TWENTY-FIFTH REGIMENT

Connecticut Volunteers

IN THE WAR OF THE REBELLION

History, Reminiscences, Description of Battle of Irish Bend, Carrying of Pay Roll, Roster.

PUBLISHED JUNE, 1913 PRESS OF THE ROCKVILLE JOURNAL ROCKVILLE, CONN.

Brief History of the Twenty-fifth Regiment, Connecticut Volunteers, from the pen of Colonel
George P. Bissell.

                    *      *      *      *      *

Experiences and Reminiscences of Samuel K. Ellis of Rockville, who went out as a Private in
Company G, Twenty-fifth Regiment.

                    *      *      *      *      *

A Complete Account of the Battle of Irish Bend, Given by Major Thomas McManus.

                    *      *      *      *      *

How the Pay of a Regiment Was Carried to New Orleans by First Lieutenant Henry Hill Goodell.

BRIEF HISTORY OF THE TWENTY-FIFTH REGIMENT, C. V.

The Twenty-fifth Regiment, Connecticut Volunteers, (George P. Bissell, Colonel), was recruited
in Hartford and Tolland Counties, in the fall of 1862. The regiment was composed of the very
best material, being almost exclusively young men impelled by patriotic motives, and from the
first they took a high stand for efficiency and good discipline.

Later in its history, when the regiment had been tried in marches and battles, it was thus
described by Adjutant-General Morse in his report to the Legislature for 1864: "This is one
of the best of our nine months' regiments and bore a conspicuous part in the advance upon,
and the campaign preceding, the fall of Port Hudson. By the bravery always displayed on the
field of battle, and the patience and endurance manifested on many long and arduous marches,
it has won for itself a high and lasting reputation."

The Twenty-fifth was mustered into the United States service November 11, 1862, and on the
14th sailed from Hartford for Centerville, L.I., to join at that rendezvous the Banks Expedition.
The muster-roll showed 811 men thoroughly drilled and well appointed, except that they were
without rifles which were later served to them on the ship after their arrival on the Mississippi
River. The regiment embarked November 29, 1862, in two divisions;--one division of five companies
under command of Colonel Bissell on the Steamer Mary Boardman; and the remainder under command
of Lieutenant-Colonel Stevens on the Steamer Empire City. The destination of the expedition
was unknown when the vessels sailed as the sealed orders were not to be opened until we had
sailed twenty-four hours to the southward and eastward. The orders, when opened, were found
to be simply to report at Ship Island, off the mouth of the Mississippi River, allowing a stop
at Dry Tortugas for coal if necessary. The ships duly arrived at Ship Island and proceeded
at once up the river to New Orleans where they arrived on the 14th of December, 1862. On the
16th, the Mary Boardman, with several of the other ships proceeded to Baton Rouge, where they
arrived the next day. The Empire City landed the left wing of the regiment at Camp Parapet,
just above New Orleans. The forces landed at Baton Rouge after a brief bombardment of the city
and the Twenty-fifth (five companies), went into camp first on the United States Arsenal ground
in the city and later near the cemetery, back of the city, where after some delay the left
wing joined the colonel's command and the regiment was once more united and in fighting trim.
The regiment was first brigaded under General Albert E. Payne of Wisconsin, a noble and brave
officer, afterwards with the Thirteenth Connecticut. The Twenty-sixth Maine and One-Hundred
and Fifty-ninth New York, under Colonel H. W. Birge, of the Thirteenth Connecticut, as Brigade
Commander, an officer of rare ability and bravery and a disciplinarian of the best stamp. Under
his command the Twenty-fifth served during its entire term of service. He led them in many
battles and marches and while he was strictness personified, he was so magnanimous, brave,
reasonable and such a thorough soldier, that the men worshiped him and would follow him into
the face of any fire. Now that he is gone they revere his memory.

The first work of the regiment was on the advance on Port Hudson, March 10, 1863, when Colonel
Bissell, in command of his own regiment, two detachments of cavalry and a regular army battery,
occupied Bayou Montesano, constructed earthworks and built a bridge across Bayou Sara. This
bridge was designed by Sergeant William Webster of Company I, after a West Point engineer had
despaired of the job. The regiment was seven miles in advance of the rest of the army and in
a very exposed and dangerous position. This position they held under a frequently severe fire
till the remainder of the army came up when they joined the column and went on to Port Hudson.
They were in the front of the land forces when Farragut sailed by the forts in the Flagship
Hartford. From the banks of the river the Twenty-fifth witnessed this grand bombardment and
the burning of the frigate Mississippi in the night.

When the object of the expedition had been accomplished (to use the words of General Banks'
order), the regiment returned to Baton Rouge, passing a wet and dreary night in Camp Misery,
a night which will never be forgotten, nor will any one ever forget the noble act of Quartermaster
John S. Ives, who rode his tired horse several miles to Baton Rouge and brought out to the
men coffee, which they managed to prepare over small fires and which no doubt saved many a
man's life. After a short stay at Baton Rouge, the army made another advance on the west bank
of the Mississippi, starting March 28th, 1863, marching with frequent skirmishes, sailing up
the Atchafalaya bayou and landing at Irish Bend, where the regiment engaged in its first real
battle, April 14th, 1863. The severity of this battle may be judged of as we read in the Adjutant-general's
report: "Our loss, as you will see from the accompanying returns of the casualties has been
very severe, being in all, ninety-six killed and wounded out of 350 with which the regiment
went into action."

From this point the regiment marched up to within six miles of the Red River and of this march
the regimental report speaks thus: "What with our loss in battle, details for special service
and the number who have given out on our very long and severe marches, this regiment is much
reduced and has today only 299 men present of whom but 248 are fit for duty. You will thus
see, though this campaign has been eminently successful, driving the enemy before us through
the entire valley of the Teche, from its mouth to its source, it has been very trying upon
the troops. Four engagements and 300 miles march in twenty days call for proportionate suffering
which cannot be avoided."

During May and June the regiment was actively engaged in the siege of Port Hudson, and was
almost constantly under fire in the trenches and in the various assaults on that stronghold,
leading the advance on the 23rd of May when a junction was formed with General Auger's column
which completed the investment of the place. During all the siege the regiment was constantly
in the front and finally participated in the glories of the surrender of the fortress on the
8th of July, having been in almost constant, arduous duty, marching and fighting since early
in March.

After the surrender of Port Hudson, the regiment returned to Donaldsonville, where it encamped
till the expiration of term of service. Colonel Bissell sent to General Banks and offered himself
and his command to remain longer in the department if our services were needed; but he replied
that there would probably be no more fighting, and thanking us for our offer, he issued an
order returning us to our homes. The regiment was finally mustered out at Hartford, August
26, 1863.

In closing this brief sketch of the history of the gallant Twenty-fifth Regiment, a few words
may be permitted in praise of the good and true men of which it was composed. With very few
and unimportant exceptions, they were of the best sort of men, who were ever banded together
for the defense of their country. They submitted to rigorous discipline cheerfully, they marched
promptly and they fought bravely. A review of official records shows that the regiment was
complimented a great many times by General Grover A. Birge for the promptness with which it
always moved and for its bravery as shown time and again in battle and under severe fire.

Ever ready and always pushed to the front in time of danger of an attack, the Twenty-fifth
was an organization of which the state need not be ashamed. When it was in the field it was
an honor to the army and to the volunteer service of our country, and now that fifty years
have rolled by the heart of many a survivor swells with just pride as he says to his children
and grandchildren: "I was a member of the Twenty-fifth Connecticut."

In closing this brief sketch of the Twenty-fifth Regiment, of which Colonel Bissell is the
author, you will see that he was very proud of the men under his command and if you could have
seen him drilling his regiment at that time, as I still see him in memory, you would know that
he fairly worshiped them. I am sure the men would have followed him into any fire against overwhelming
odds. And now he is gone, the men that are left cherish his memory.

INTERESTING REMINISCENCES AND EXPERIENCES BY SAMUEL K. ELLIS.

In opening the subject of my experiences as a private in the War of the Rebellion, I hardly
know how to begin as this is the first time I have attempted to write at length upon this subject.
I earnestly hope that all those who read this little book will excuse all grammatical errors.

Fifty years have come and gone and as my life has been spared to see the fiftieth anniversary
of my army life, and as I kept a diary during my term of service in the War of the Rebellion,
I thought it no more than right and just to myself and descendants that I leave in book form
some of the many experiences I saw and passed through during that time. It seemed to me that
it was a grand opportunity on this the fiftieth anniversary to do it, if I ever did. Hoping
that this account of my army life may be highly appreciated and prized by my children and grandchildren
and any others that may be interested, I will endeavor to give a complete account as I saw
and recorded events.

I was a Vernon Center boy but was working in the town of Glastonbury, when the war broke out,
with Hubbard and Broadhead at teaming and farm work. At this time the gloom was deep but the
people were not discouraged. At the request of the governors of eighteen loyal states, President
Lincoln, on July 2nd, 1862, called out three hundred thousand men for three years' service,
and on August 4, ordered a call for three hundred thousand men for nine months. At this time
it was hard to tell what one's duty was, but I had made up my mind to go and of course I have
never been sorry, as I look back and say with just pride that I was one who went out to help
save our Republic from dissolution and preserve civilization itself on this Western Hemisphere
from destruction.

