Look into life, and watch the growth of character. Men are not what they seem to the outward
eye--mere machines moving about in customary occupations--productive labourers of food and
wearing apparel--slaves from morn to night at taskwork set them by the Wealth of Nations. They
are the Children of God. The soul never sleeps--not even when its wearied body is heard snoring
by people living in the next street. All the souls now in this world are for ever awake; and
this life, believe us, though in moral sadness it has often been rightly called so, is no dream.
In a dream we have no will of our own, no power over ourselves; ourselves are not felt to be
ourselves; our familiar friends seem strangers from some far-off country; the dead are alive,
yet we wonder not; the laws of the physical world are suspended, or changed, or confused by
our phantasy; Intellect, Imagination, the Moral Sense, Affection, Passion, are not possessed
by us in the same way we possess them out of that mystery: were Life a Dream, or like a Dream,
it would never lead to Heaven.

Again, then, we say to you, look into life and watch the growth of character. In a world where
the ear cannot listen without hearing the clank of chains, the soul may yet be free as if it
already inhabited the skies. For its Maker gave it LIBERTY OF CHOICE OF GOOD OR OF EVIL; and
if it has chosen the good it is a King. All its faculties are then fed on their appropriate
food provided for them in nature. It then knows where the necessaries and the luxuries of its
life grow, and how they may be gathered--in a still sunny region inaccessible to blight--"no
mildewed ear blasting his wholesome brother." In the beautiful language of our friend Aird,--

    "And thou shalt summer high in bliss upon the Hills of God."

Go, read the EXCURSION then--venerate the PEDLAR--pity the SOLITARY--respect the PRIEST, and
love the POET.

So charmed have we been with the sound of our own voice--of all sounds on earth the sweetest
surely to our ears--and, therefore, we so dearly love the monologue, and from the dialogue
turn averse, impatient of him ycleped the interlocutor, who, like a shallow brook, will keep
prattling and babbling on between the still deep pools of our discourse, which nature feeds
with frequent waterfalls--so charmed have we been with the sound of our own voice, that, scarcely
conscious the while of more than a gentle ascent along the sloping sward of a rural Sabbath-day's
journey, we perceive now that we must have achieved a Highland league--five miles--of rough
uphill work, and are standing tiptoe on the Mountain-top. True that his altitude is not very
great--somewhere, we should suppose, between two and three thousand feet--much higher than
the Pentlands--somewhat higher than the Ochils--a middle-sized Grampian. Great painters and
poets know that power lies not in mere measurable bulk. Atlas, it is true, is a giant, and
he has need to be so, supporting the globe. So is Andes; but his strength has never been put
to proof, as he carries but clouds. The Cordilleras--but we must not be personal--so suffice
it to say, that soul, not size, equally in mountains and in men, is and inspires the true sublime.
Mont Blanc might be as big again; but what then, if without his glaciers?

These mountains are neither immense nor enormous--nor are there any such
in the British Isles. Look for a few of the highest on Riddell's
ingenious Scale--in Scotland Ben-nevis, Helvellyn in England, in Ireland
the Reeks; and you see that they are mere mole-hills to Chimborazo.
Nevertheless, they are the hills of the Eagle. And think ye not that an
Eagle glorifies the sky more than a Condor? That Vulture--for Vulture he
is--flies league-high--the Golden Eagle is satisfied to poise himself
half a mile above the loch, which, judged by the rapidity of its long
river's flow, may be based a thousand feet or more above the level of
the sea. From that height methinks the Bird-Royal, with the golden eye,
can see the rising and the setting sun, and his march on the meridian,
without a telescope. If ever he fly by night--and we think we have seen
a shadow passing the stars that was on the wing of life--he must be a
rare astronomer.
    Now fit to raise a kingdom of their own
    He drives them from his fort, the towering seat
    For ages of his empire; which in peace
    Unstain'd he holds, while many a league to sea
    He wings his course, and preys in distant isles."

Do you long for wings, and envy the Eagle? Not if you be wise. Alas! such is human nature,
that in one year's time the novelty of pinions would be over, and you would skim undelighted
the edges of the clouds. Why do we think it a glorious thing to fly from the summit of some
inland mountain away to distant isles? Because our feet are bound to the dust. We enjoy the
eagle's flight far more than the eagle himself driving headlong before the storm; for imagination
dallies with the unknown power, and the wings that are denied to our bodies are expanded in
our souls. Sublime are the circles the sun-staring creature traces in the heavens, to us who
lie stretched among the heather bloom. Could we do the same, we should still be longing to
pierce through the atmosphere to some other planet; and an elevation of leagues above the snows
of the Himalayas would not satisfy our aspirations. But we can calculate the distances of the
stars, and are happy as Galileo in his dungeon.

Yet an Eagle we are, and therefore proud of You our Scottish mountains, as you are of Us. Stretch
yourself up to your full height as we now do to ours--and let "Andes, giant of the Western
Star," but dare to look at us, and we will tear the "meteor standard to the winds unfurled"
from his cloudy hands. There you stand--and were you to rear your summits much higher into
heaven, you would alarm the hidden stars.

Yet we have seen you higher--but it was in storm. In calm like this you do well to look beautiful--your
solemn altitude suits the sunny season, and the peaceful sky. But when the thunder at mid-day
would hide your heads in a night of cloud, you thrust them through the blackness, and show
them to the glens, crowned with fire.

Are they a sea of mountains! No--they are mountains in a sea. And what a sea! Waves of water,
when at the prodigious, are never higher than the foretop of a man-of-war. Waves of vapour--they
alone are seen flying mountains high--dashing, but howling not--and in their silent ascension,
all held together by the same spirit, but perpetually changing its beautiful array, where order
seems ever and anon to come in among disorder, there is a grandeur that settles down in the
soul of youthful poet roaming in delirium among the mountain glooms, and "pacifies the fever
of his heart."

Call not now these vapours waves; for movement there is none among the ledges, and ridges,
and roads, and avenues, and galleries, and groves, and houses, and churches, and castles, and
fairy palaces--all framed of mist. Far up among and above that wondrous region, through which
you hear voices of waterfalls deepening the silence, behold hundreds of mountain-tops--blue,
purple, violet--for the sun is shining straight on some and aslant on others--and on those
not at all; nor can the shepherd at your side, though he has lived among them all his life,
till after long pondering tell you the names of those most familiar to him; for they seem to
have all interchanged sites and altitudes, and Black Benhun himself, the Eagle-Breeder, looks
so serenely in his rainbow, that you might almost mistake him for Ben Louey or the Hill of Hinds.

