But we are getting too rural; for our "Suburban Stroll" extended but to Dulwich and back, about
four miles south of London. Twenty years since, we remember, the parish of Camberwell (which
includes Peckham and Dulwich) was a pleasant village, with several mansions inhabited by citizens
of property, who retired hither for air and recreation; now the whole district is crowded with
lath and plaster cottages, and sugar-bakers' boxes, which appear well adapted for twelfth-cake
kings and queens.[7] Twenty years ago, we enjoyed the embowered walk of Camberwell Grove, and
above all, Grove Hill, the retreat of Dr. John Coakley Lettsom, till his benevolence overmuch
obliged him to part with this delightful residence. Well do we remember the picturesque effect
of Grove Hill, the unostentatious, casino-like villa, ornamented with classic figures of Liberality,
Plenty, and Flora--and the sheet of water whose surface was broken by a stream from a dank
and moss-crusted fountain in its centre. Then, the high, overarching grove, and its summit,
traditionally said to be the spot where George Barnwell murdered his uncle, the incident that
gave rise to Lillo's pathetic tragedy. But the march of improvement has extended hither--the
walk can scarcely be traced: still there is abundance of timber, for the grove has disappeared,
and scores of new houses have sprung up with almost magical effect--and the whole scene reminds
us of one of the change-scenes of a pantomime. The builder's share has turned over nearly every
inch of the ground, and fresh gravel and loose loam remind the philosophical pedestrian that
all is change beneath as well as on the surface. Of the mock villas that have been "put up"
in this quarter, we must speak with forbearance. Their little bits of Gothic plastered here
and there; their puny machicolations, square and pointed arches, and stained glass "cut out
into little stars"--are but sorry specimens of taste, and but poor indications of comfort.
They seem to totter like card-houses, and all their spick-and-span finery vanishes beside a
wing of the picturesque--a cottage in true rustic taste, with rudely-arched virandahs, formed
of limbs and trunks of trees, intermixed with evergreens, and reminding us of the "gnarled
oaks and soft myrtles" of the poet's fancy; and with trimmed arches of thatch over little casements,
with flowers

  "Blinding the lower panes."

Now is the little hatch-gate slammed with the wind, contrasting its rude sound with the rusty
creak of the "invisible" iron fence just set up, but already

  So loose that it but wants another push
  To leap from off its hinges;

--the milk-white window-sill, or painted flower-pots ranged on bars of cast-iron, like so many
toys of Nature. Such was the contrast when we last visited the "Grove;" the picturesque cottage
was then as we have described it, and its new-born neighbours were rising fast on every side,
and we would not insure its existence for a week longer; for the slicing, cutting, and carving
of this once beautiful spot, exceeds all credibility. With all these changes, however, the
fine panoramic view of two hundred miles may still be enjoyed from this spot, and overlooking
the meaner glories of the GREAT CITY at your feet, the eye rests on the "sister hills," Harrow
spire, and where

  Majestic Windsor lifts his princely brow;

Shooter's Hill and Greenwich, with tower, dome, and turret; Sydenham and Norwood on the south;
and Chelsea and the unbridged winding Thames on the west. Art has not yet thrown up her screens,
so as to fence in this world of beauties from our enjoyment. Here we sit down and rest our
recreant limbs, leaving the reader to enjoy the innumerable reflections which our poor mention
has called up. Another fine day, and we may proceed in our stroll.

PHILO.

