We cannot say much in praise of the plot of "John Brent," but it at least enables the author
to supply a good framework for his incidents, descriptions, and characters. The plot is based
rather on possibilities than probabilities; but the men and women he depicts are thoroughly
natural. It would be difficult to point to any other American novel which furnishes incidents
that can compare in vigor and vividness with some of the incidents in this romance. The ride
to rescue Helen Clitheroe from her kidnappers is a masterpiece, worthy to rank with the finest
passages of Cooper or Scott. The fierce, swift black stallion, "Don Fulano," a horse superior
to any which Homer has immortalized, is almost the hero of the romance. That Winthrop, with
all his sympathy with the "advanced" ideas and sentiments of the reformers and philanthropists
of the time, was not a mere prattling and scribbling sentimentalist, is proved by his glorious
idealization of this magnificent horse. He raises the beast into a moral and intellectual sympathy
with his human rider, and there is a poetic justice in making him die at last in an attempt
to further the escape of a fugitive slave.

The characterization of the book is original. Gerrian, Jake Shamberlain, Armstrong, Sizzum,
the Mormon preacher, are absolutely new creations. Hugh Clitheroe may suggest Dickens's Skimpole
and Hawthorne's Clifford, but the character is developed under entirely new circumstances.
As for Wade and Brent, they are persons whom we all recognize as the old heroes of romance,
though the conditions under which they act are changed. Helen, the heroine of the story, is
a more puzzling character to the critic; but, on the whole, we are bound to say that she is
a new development of womanhood. The author exhausts all the resources of his genius in giving
a "local habitation and a name" to this fond creation of his imagination, and he has succeeded.
Helen Clitheroe promises to be one of those "beings of the mind" which will he permanently
remembered.

Heroism, active or passive, is the lesson taught by this romance, and we know that the author,
in his life, illustrated both phases of the quality. His novels, which, when he was alive,
the booksellers refused to publish, are now passing through their tenth and twelfth editions.
Everybody reads "Cecil Dreeme" and "John Brent," and everybody must catch a more or less vivid
glimpse of the noble nature of their author. But these books give but an imperfect expression
of the soul of Theodore Winthrop. They have great merits, but they are still rather promises
than performances. They hint of a genius which was denied full development. The character,
however, from which they derive their vitality and their power to please, shines steadily through
all the imperfections of plot and construction. The novelist, after all, only suggests the
power and beauty of the man; and the man, though dead, will keep the novels alive. Through
them we can commune with a rare and noble spirit, called away from earth before all its capacities
of invention and action were developed, but still leaving brilliant traces in literature of
the powers it was denied the opportunity adequately to unfold.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOREIGN LITERATURE.

To keep pace with the productions of foreign literature is a task beyond the possibilities
of any reader. The bibliographical journals of France, Germany, Italy, and Spain weekly present
such copious lists of new works, that a mere mention of only the principal ones would far exceed
the limits we have proposed to ourselves. However, from the chaos of contemporary productions
it is our intention to sift, as far as lies in our power, such works as may with justice be
styled representative of the country in which they are produced. Ranging in this introductory
article through the year 1861, we shall limit ourselves to a few of the contributions upon
French literary history.

No branch of letters is richer at the present time than that in which the writer, laying aside
all thought of direct creativeness, confines himself to the criticism of the works of the past
or present, analyzing and studying the influences that have been brought to hear upon the poet,
historian, or novelist, anatomizing literature and resolving it into its elements, pointing
out the action exercised upon thought and expression by the age, and seeking the effects of
these upon society and politics as well as upon the general tastes and moral being of a generation.
Methods of writing are now discussed rather than put in practice. We are in a transition age
more than politically. Creative genius seems to be resting for more marked and permanent channels
to be formed; so that, though every year gives birth to numberless works in every branch of
art, original production is rarer than the activity, the restlessness of the time might lead
us to expect.

In no country has literary criticism more life than in France. It engages the attention of
the best minds. No writer, whatever be his speciality, thinks it derogatory to give long and
elaborate notices in the daily press of new books or new editions of old books. Thus, Sainte-Beuve
in the "Moniteur," De Sacy, Saint-Marc Girardin, Philarète Chasles, Prévost-Paradol in the
"Journal des Débats," not to mention the numerous writers of the "Revue des Deux Mondes," the
"Européenne," and the "Nationale," vie with each other in extracting from all that appears
what is most acceptable to the general reader.

M. Sainte-Beuve may be taken as a type of the avowedly professional critic. Whatever he may
accomplish as the historian of Port-Royal, it is to his weekly articles, informal and disconnected
as they are, that he owes his high rank among French authors. These "Causeries du Lundi" have
now reached the fourteenth volume.[A] In the last we find the same easy admiration, facility
of approbation, and suppleness that enable him to praise the "Fanny" of Feydeau, calling it
a poem, and on the next page to do justice to the last volume of Thiers's "Consulate and Empire,"
or to the recent publication of the Correspondence of Buffon. The most important articles in
the volume are those on Vauvenargues, on the Abbé de Marolles, and on Bonstetten.

[Footnote A: Causeries du Lundi. Par C.A. Sainte-Beuve, de l'Académie Française. Tome Quatorziéme.
Paris: Garnier Frères. 12mo. pp. 480.]

Of quite a different school is M. Armand de Pontmartin, who, under the titles of "Causeries
du Samedi," "Causeries Littéraires," etc., has now issued over a dozen volumes touching on
all points of contemporary letters, often very severe in their strictures. The last, "Les Semaines
Littéraires,"[B] contains notices of late works by Cousin, About, Quinet, Laprade, and others,
and concludes with an article on Scribe. Pontmarlin represents the Catholic sentiment in literature.
He measures everything as it agrees or disagrees with Legitimacy and Ultramontanism. His works
are a continual defence of the Bourbons and the Pope. Modern democracy he cannot pardon. Without
seeking to deny the excesses and shortcomings of his own party, he finds an explanation for
all in the levelling tendencies of the age. He cannot be too severe on the first French Revolution
and its results. "In letters," he tells us, "it has led to materialism and anarchy, while the
Bourbons personify for France peace, glory," etc.

[Footnote B: Les Semaines Littéraires. Troisième Série des Causeries Littéraires. Par Armand
de Pontmartin. Paris: Michel Lévy Frères. 12mo. pp. 364.]

Pontmartin is an able representative of the side he has taken. He believes in and ably defends
those heroes of literature so well characterized as "Prophets of the Past," Chateaubriand,
De Bonald, and J. de Maistre. His special objects of antipathy are writers like Michelet and
Quinet, pamphleteers like About, and critics like Sainte-Beuve.

The last he cannot pardon for his work on Chateaubriand,[C] published in the early part of
the year 1861. The time is past for giving a fuller account of this remarkable production of
the historian of Port-Royal. Suffice it to say, that, though it deals in very small criticism
indeed, though its author seems to have made it his task to sum up all the weaknesses of one
the prestige of whose name fills, in France at least, the first half of this century, yet there
exists no more valuable contribution to the history of literature under the first Empire. It
has been called "a work no one would wish to have written, yet which is read by all with exquisite
pleasure." Nothing could be truer.

[Footnote C: Chateaubriand et son Groupe Littéraire sous l'Empire. Cours professé à Liége en
1848-1849, par C.A. Sainte-Beuve, de l'Académie Française. Paris: Garnier Frères. 2 vols. 8vo.
pp. 410, 457.]

"Chateaubriand and his Literary Group under the Empire" is a course of twenty-one lectures
delivered by Sainte-Beuve at Liège, whither he repaired soon after the Revolution of 1848 broke
out in Paris. Fragments of the work appeared in the "Revue des Deux Mondes," among others the
paper on Chênedollé, which forms the most interesting portion of the second division. In this
are to be found several original letters, now published for the first time, casting much new
light on the life of that unfortunate poet.

Of more general interest, however, are the pages on Chateaubriand himself. It was the fate
of this writer to be flattered beyond measure in his lifetime, and now come the first judgments
of posterity, which deals with him no less harshly than it has already begun to deal with another
idol of the French people, Béranger. Sainte-Beuve has constituted himself judge, reversing
even his own adulatory articles, as they may be read in the earlier volumes of the "Causeries."
It is at best an ungrateful task to dissect a reputation in the way in which we find it done
in the present work. It must seem strange to many a reader that the very man who in early life
could utter such sweet flattery, who long was the foremost to bear incense, should now consider
it his duty "to seek the foot of clay beneath the splendid drapery, and to replace about the
statue the aromas of the sanctuary by the perfumes of the boudoir." In spite of this, "Chateaubriand
and his Literary Group" must be ranked among the most remarkable of literary biographies. Here
the critic gives full scope to his inclination for minute analysis; the history of the author
of "René" explains his works, and these in turn are made to tell his life,--that life so full
of love of effect, and constant painstaking to seem rather than to be. Even in his religious
sentiments the author of the "Genius of Christianity" appears lukewarm, not to say more.

In comprehensive works on literary history France is far from being as rich as Germany. Beyond
the native literature little has been accomplished; and even in this, works of importance may
be counted on the fingers. The past year saw the conclusion of Nisard's work, the most comprehensive
history of French literature. The fourth volume[D] is devoted to the eighteenth century, and
concludes with a few general chapters on the nineteenth.

[Footnote D: Histoire de la Literature Française. Par D. Nisard, de l'Académie Française, Inspecteur-Général
de l'Enseignement Supérieur. Tome Quatrième, Paris: Firmin Didot Frères, Fils, et Cie. 8vo.
pp. 584.]

