Some of your clerical readers, as well as myself, would probably be glad to have determined,
what are the proper times and measures in which the bells of a church ought to be rung. There
seems to be no uniformity of practice in this matter, nor any authoritative directions, by
which the customs that obtain may be either improved or regulated. The terms chiming, tolling,
and peal-ringing, though now generally understood, do not intelligibly apply to the few regulations
about bells which occur in the canons.

I believe that chiming is the proper method of summoning the congregation to the services of
the church: and tolling certainly appears to be the most appropriate use of the bell at funerals.
But chiming the bells is an art that is not recognised in the older rules respecting their
use. For instance, the Fifteenth Canon orders that on Wednesdays and Fridays weekly, warning
shall be given to the people that litany will be said, by tolling of a bell. And, on the other
hand, though we toll at a funeral, the Sixty-seventh Canon enjoins that--

    "After the party's death, there shall be rung no {239} more but one
    short peal, and one other before the burial, and one other after the
    burial.

The peal here alluded to does not of course mean what MR. ELLACOMBE has so clearly described
to be a modern peal, in Vol. i., p. 154., of "NOTES AND QUERIES;" but it would at least amount,
I suppose, to consonantia campanarum, a ringing together of bells, as distinguished from the
toll or single stroke on a bell. Horne Tooke says:

    "The toll of a bell is its being lifted up (tollere, to raise),
    which causes that sound we call its toll."

The poet does not clear the ambiguity and confusion of terms, when he sings--

 "Faintly as tolls the evening chime!"

Peals are not heard in London on Sunday mornings, I believe; but in the country, at least hereabouts,
they are commonly rung as the summons to church, ending with a few strokes on one bell; and
then a smaller bell than any in the peal (the sanctus bell of old, perhaps, and now sometimes
vulgarly called "Tom Tinkler") announces that divine service is about to begin.

The object of these remarks is to elicit clearly what is the right way of ringing the bells
of a church on the several occasions of their being used.

ALFRED GATTY.

Ecclesfield.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAZER WOOD: GUTTA PERCHA. In my opinion, it is more than a coincidence that Doctor Montgomery,
who, in 1843, received the gold medal of the Society of Arts for bringing gutta percha and
its useful properties under the notice of that body, describes it in almost the same words
that Tradescant uses when speaking of the pliable Mazer wood: the Doctor says, "it could be
moulded into any form by merely dipping it into boiling water." It is worthy of remark that
Tradescant, who was the first botanist of his day, seems to have been uncertain of the true
nature of the "Mazer wood," for he does not class it with his "gums, rootes, woods;" but, as
before observed, in a heterogeneous collection which he styles "other variety of rarities."
Presuming, as I do, that this Mazer wood was what we now term gutta percha, the question may
be propounded, how could Tradescant have procured it from its remote locale? The answer is
easy. In another part of the Musæum Tradescantianum may be found a list of the "benefactors"
to the collection; and amongst their names occurs that of William Curteen, Esq. Now this William
Curteen and his father Sir William, of Flemish Descent, were the most extensive British merchants
of the time, and had not only ships trading to, but also possessed forts and factories on,
some of the islands of the Eastern Archipelago, the native habitat of the sapotaceous tree
that yields the gutta percha. Curteen was a collector of curiosities himself, and no doubt
his captains and agents were instructed to procure such: in short, a specimen of gutta percha
was just as likely to attract the attention of an intelligent Englishman at Amboyna in the
fifteenth century, as it did at Singapore in the nineteenth.

If there are still any remains of Tradescant's collection in the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford,
the question, whether the Mazer wood was gutta percha or not, might be soon set at rest; but
it is highly probable that the men who ordered the relics of the Dodo to be thrown out, showed
but little ceremony to the Mazer wood or dishes.

A curious instance of a word, not very dissimilar to Mazer, may be found in Eric Red's Saga,
part of the Flatö Annals, supposed to be written in the tenth century, and one of the authorities
for the pre-Columbian discovery of America by the Icelanders. Karlsefne, one of the heroes
of the Saga, while his ship was detained by a contrary wind in a Norwegian port, was accosted
by a German, who wished to purchase his, Karlsefne's, broom.

    "'I will not sell it,' said Karlsefne. 'I will give you half a mark in
    gold for it,' said the German man. Karlsefne thought this a good offer,
    and thereupon concluded the bargain. The German man went away with the
    broom. Karlsefne did not know what wood it was; but it was Mæsur,
    which had come from Wineland!"

Perhaps some reader may give an instance of Mazer wood being mentioned by other writers; or
inform me if the word Mazer, in itself, had any peculiar signification.

W. PINKERTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Paul Pitcher Night.--Can any of the contributors to "NOTES AND QUERIES" throw light upon a
curious custom, prevalent in some parts of Cornwall, of throwing broken pitchers, and other
earthen vessels, against the doors of dwelling-houses, on the eve of the Conversion of St.
Paul, thence locally called "Paul pitcher night?" On that evening parties of young people perambulate
the parishes in which the custom is retained, exclaiming as they throw the sherds,--

 "Paul's eve,
  And here's a heave!"

According to the received notions, the first "heave" cannot be objected to; but, upon its being
repeated, the inhabitants of the house whose {240} door is thus attacked may, if they can,
seize the offenders, and inflict summary justice upon them; but, as they usually effect their
escape before the door can be opened, this is not easily managed.

Any more probable conjecture as to the origin or meaning of this custom, or any account of
its occurring elsewhere, will greatly oblige

F. M. (a Subscriber).

Disinterment for Heresy.--A remarkable instance of disinterment on account of heresy is stated
to have occurred a little before the Reformation, in the case of one Tracy, who was publicly
accused in convocation of having expressed heretical tenets in his will; and, having been found
guilty, a commission was issued to dig up his body, which was accordingly done. I shall be
much obliged to any of your readers who will favour me with the date and particulars of this case.

ARUN.

"Just Notions," &c.--At the end of the Introduction of The Christian Instructed in the Principles
of Religion, by W. Reading, Lond. 1717, occur the following lines: (Query, whether original,
or, if not, from whence quoted?)--

 "Just notions will into good actions grow,
  And to our reason we our virtues owe;
  False judgments are the unhappy source of ill,
  And blinded error draws the passive will.
  To know our God, and know ourselves, is all
  We can true happiness or wisdom call."

U. Q.

Pursuits of Literature.--How came the author of the Pursuits of Literature to be known? I have
before me the 11th edition (1801); and in the Preface to the fourth and last dialogue, the
author declares that "neither my name nor situation in life will ever be revealed." He does
not pretend to be the sole depository of his own secret; but he says again:

    "My secret will be for ever preserved, I know, under every change of
    fortune or of political tenets, while honour, and virtue, and religion,
    and friendly affection, and erudition, and the principles of a
    gentleman have binding force and authority upon minds so cultivated and
    dignified. When they fall, I am contented to fall with them."

Nevertheless, the author of the Pursuits of Literature is known. How is this?

S. T. D.

Satirical Medal.--I possess a medal whose history I should be glad to know. It is apparently
of silver, though not ringing as such, and about an inch and a quarter in diameter. On the
obverse are two figures in the long-waisted, full-skirted coats, cavalier hats, and full-bottomed
wigs of, I presume, Louis XIV.'s time. Both wear swords; one, exhibiting the most developed
wig of the two, offers a snuff-box, from which the other has accepted a pinch, and fillips
it into his companion's eyes. The legend is "Faites-vous cela pour m'affronter?"

The mitigated heroism of this query seems to be noted on the reverse, which presents a man
digging in the ground, an operation in which he must be somewhat hampered by a lantern in his
left hand; superfluous one would deem (but for the authority of Diogenes), as the sun is shining
above his head in full splendour. The digger's opinion, that the two combined are not more
than the case requires, is conveyed in the legend,--

    "Je cherche du courage pour mon maistre."

The finding was curious. On cutting down an ash-tree in the neighbourhood of Linton, Cambridgeshire,
in 1818, a knob on its trunk was lopped off, and this medal discovered in its core! It was
probably the cause of the excrescence, having been, perhaps, thrust under the bark to escape
the danger of its apparently political allusion. The Linton carrier purchased it for half-a-crown,
and from him it passed in 1820 into hands whence it devolved to me.

Is anything known of this medal, or are any other specimens of it extant? I pretend to no numismatic
skill, but to an unlearned mind it would seem to contain allusion to the insult which Charles
II. and his government were supposed to submit to from Louis XIV.; to be, in fact, a sort of
metallic HB.

Some friend, I forget who, pronounced the workmanship Dutch, which would, I think, favour the
above theory. The figures are in bold and prominent relief, but to a certain degree rounded
by wear, having been evidently carried in the pocket for a considerable time.

G. W. W.

Matthew's Mediterranean Passage.--I should be thankful for any information as to where the
following work could be seen, and also respecting the nature of its contents.

    "Somerset.--Matthew's Mediterranean Passage by water from London to
    Bristol, &c., and from Lynne to Yarmouthe. Very rare, 4to. 1670."

The above is quoted from Thos. Thorpe's Cat., part iii., 1832, p. 169., no. 7473.

MERCURII.

Inscription on an Oak Board.--I have an old oak board, on which are carved the following lines
in raised capital letters of an antique form, with lozenges between the words:--

 "IF . YOV . WOVLD . KNOW . MY . NAME .
  OR . WHO . I . WAS . THAT . DID . THE . SAME .
  LOKE . IN . GENESIS . WHERE . HEE . DOO . INDIGHT."

{241}

The letters are two inches long, and a quarter of an inch high from the sunken face of the
board, which is four feet long by ten inches wide. It has a raised rim or border round the
inscription; which proves that it had not contained more lines than as above. It was found
at Hereford, in a county which still abounds in timbered houses, and it had been lately used
as a weather-board. The legend was submitted to the late Sir Samuel Meyrick of Goderich Court;
who was of opinion, that it had formerly been over the chimney-piece or porch of some dwelling-house,
and is a riddle involving the builder's or founder's name. If any of your readers can suggest
the age and original use of this board, or explain the name concealed in the lines, it will oblige

P. H. F.

Expressions in Milton.--Allow me to ask some correspondent to give the meaning of the following
expressions from the prose works of Milton:--

    "A toothless satire is as improper as a toothed sleck stone, and as
    bullish."

"A toothed sleck stone," I take to mean a "jagged whetstone," very unfit for its purpose; but
what is the force of the term "as bullish?"

Again:

    "I do not intend this hot seasons to bid you the base, through the
    wide and dusty champaign of the councils."

The meaning I receive from this is, "I don't mean to carry you through the maze of the ancient
councils of the church;" but I wish to know the exact force of the expression "to bid you the
base?"

R. (a Reader).

Saints' Days.--The chorea invita is not a very satisfactory explanation of St. Vitus's dance;
and though St. Vitus is not in the Roman martyrology of our day, yet he is in the almanacs
of the fifteenth century, and probably earlier. The martyr Vitus makes the 15th of June a red
letter-day in the first almanac ever printed. Who was St. Vitus, and how did he give his name
to the play of the features which is called his dance? Again, the day before St. Patrick is
celebrated in Ireland, St. Patricius is celebrated in Auvergne. Can any identity be established?

M.

Chepstow Castle.--In Carlyle's Life of Cromwell, vol. i. pp. 349, 350., there is a letter from
Cromwell, dated before Pembroke, wherein he directs a Major Saunders, then quartered at or
near Brecon, to go to Monmouthshire and seize Sir Trevor Williams of Llangevie, and Mr. Morgan,
High Sheriff of Monmouth, "as," he writes, "they were very deep in the plot of betraying Chepstow
Castle." Carlyle has the following foot-note to the letter:

    "Saunders by his manner of indorsing this letter seems to intimate that
    he took his two men; that he keeps the letter by way of voucher. Sir
    Trevor Williams by and bye compounds as a delinquent, retires then into
    Llangevie House, and disappears from history. Of Sheriff Morgan, except
    that a new sheriff is soon appointed, we have no farther notice
    whatever."

Can any of your correspondents give me information in what work I can find a tolerably full
account of this "betraying of Chepstow Castle?" and also of what place in the county was this
Morgan, Sheriff of Monmouth?

DANYDD GAM.

The Wilkes MSS. and "North Briton."--I inquired long since what had become of these MSS., which
Miss Wilkes bequeathed to Peter Elmsley, of Sloane Street, "to whose judgement and delicacy"
she confided them,--meaning, I presume, that she should be content to abide by his judgement
as to the propriety of publishing them, or a selection; but certainly to be preserved for the
vindication of her father's memory; otherwise she would have destroyed them, or directed them
to be destroyed. In 1811 these MSS. were, I presume, in the possession of Peter Elmsley, Principal
of St. Alban's Hall, as he submitted the Junius Correspondence, through Mr. Hallam, to Serjeant
Rough, who returned the letters to Mr. Hallam. Where now are the original Junius Letters, and
where the other MSS.? The Athenæum has announced that the Stowe MSS., including the Diaries
and Correspondence of George Grenville, are about to be published, and will throw a "new light"
on the character of John Wilkes. I suspect any light obtained from George Grenville will be
very like the old light, and only help to blacken what is already too dark. I therefore venture
to ask once again, Where are the Wilkes MSS.? and can they be consulted? Further, are any of
your readers able and willing to inform us who were the writers of the different papers in
the North Briton, either first or second series? Through "NOTES AND QUERIES" we got much curious
information on this point with reference to the Rolliad.

W. M. S.

"O wearisome Condition of Humanity!"--Can any of your readers inform me in what "noble poet
of our own" the following verses are to be found. They are quoted by Tillotson in vol. ii.
p. 255. of his Works, in 3 vols. fo.

 "O wearisome condition of humanity!
    Born under one law, to another bound;
  Vainly begot, and yet forbidden vanity;
    Created sick, commanded to be sound.
  If Nature did not take delight in blood,
  She would have found more easy ways to good."

Q.

Bloomsbury.

Places called "Purgatory."--The Rev. Wm. Thornber, in his History of Blackpool in the Fylde
District of Lancashire, gives the following explanation of the name as applied to particular
fields, houses, &c.:--

    "The last evening in October (or vigil of All Souls) {242} was called
    the Teanlay night; at the close of that day, till within late years,
    the hills which encircle the Fylde shone brightly with many a bonfire,
    the mosses rivalling them with their fires kindled for the object of
    succouring their friends in purgatory. A field near Poulton, in which
    this ceremony of the Teanlays was celebrated (a circle of men standing
    with bundles of straw raised high on pitchforks), is named Purgatory;
    and will hand down to posterity the farce of lighting souls to endless
    happiness from the confines of their prison-house: the custom was not
    confined to one village or town, but was generally practised by the
    Romanists."

It is certain that places may be found here and there in the county still going by the name
of Purgatory. Can any of your correspondents throw further light on the matter, or tell us
if the custom extended to other counties?

P. P.

Epitaph in Hall's "Discovery."--The following epitaph occurs in Bishop Hall's Discovery of
a New World, by an English Mercury, an extremely rare little volume, unknown to Ames or Herbert;
and is, I should imagine, a satire on some statesman of the time. Query, on whom?

    "Passenger.,

    "Stay, reade, walke, Here lieth Andrew Turnecoate, who was neither
    Slave, nor Soldier, nor Phisitian, nor Fencer, nor Cobler, nor
    Filtcher, nor Lawier, nor Usurer, but all; who lived neither in citty,
    nor countrie, nor at home, nor abroade, nor at sea, nor at land, nor
    here, nor elsewhere, but everywhere. Who died neither of hunger, nor
    poyson, nor hatchet, nor halter, nor dogge, nor disease, but
    altogether. I., I. H., being neither his debtour, nor heire, nor
    kinsman, nor friend, nor neighbour, but all: in his memory have erected
    this, neither monument, nor tombe, nor sepulcher, but all; wishing
    neither evill nor well, neither to thee, nor mee, nor him, but all unto
    all."--P. 140.

C. J. FRANCIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries Answered.

Canon and Prebendary.--What is the difference between a canon and a prebend or prebendary in
a cathedral, or a collegiate church establishment?

W. J.

    [The distinction seems to be this, that a prebendary is one who
    possesses a prebend, which formerly a canon might or might not hold.
    Subsequently, when canons received prebends for their support, the two
    classes became confounded; the one, however, is a name of office
    (canon), the other of emolument (prebendary).

    "Une partie du clergé était toujours auprès de l'évêque, pour assister
    aux prières et à toutes les fonctions publiques. L'évêque consultait
    les prêtres sur toutes les affaires de l'église: et pour l'exécution il
    se servait des diacres et des ministres inférieurs. Le reste du clergé
    était distribué dans les titres de la ville et de la campagne, et ne se
    rassemblait qu'en certaines occasions, d'où sont venus les synodes. De
    cette première partie de clergé sont venus les chanoines des
    cathédrales. Il est vrai que du commencement on nommait clercs
    canoniques, tous ceux qui vivaient selon les canons, sous la conduite
    de leur évêque; et qui étaient sur le canon ou la matricule de
    l'église, pour être entretenus à ses dépens, soit qu'ils servissent
    dans l'église matrice, ou dans les autres titres. Depuis, le nom de
    canonique ou chanoines fut particulièrement appliqué aux clercs, qui
    vivaient en commun avec leur évêque."--Institution du Droit
    Ecclésiastique, par M. l'Abbé Fleury, 1ière partie, chap. xvii.

So much for the origin of canons. As to prebendaries:

    "Præbenda, est jus percipiendi reditus ecclesiasticos, ratione divini
    officii, cui quis insistit. Alia est canonicatui annexa, alia sine ea
    confertur. Gl. in c. cum M. Ferrariensis, 9. in verbo receperunt de
    constit.

    "Præbendam, beneficium et titulum nihil reipsa interest: usu tamen
    loquendi in alia ecclesia vocatur Præbenda, in alia beneficiam, seu
    titulus. Secund. Pac. Isag. Decret. hoc tit."--Lib. 2. tit. xxviii.
    of the Aphorisms of Canon Law, by Arn. Corvinus. Paris, 1671.

In the Quare Impedit of Mallory, the distinction is thus expressed:--

    "There is a difference taken between a prebendary and a canon, for
    a prebendary is a præbendo and nomen facti in respect of the
    maintenance given to him: but Canonicus est nomen juris; and in our
    usual translations a secular is translated to a regular, but not e
    converso, a regular to a secular, Palm 501."--p. 34. sub titulo
    Advowson.]

What Amount of Property constitutes an Esquire?--The practice of subjoining "Esquire" to the
names of persons has become so universal, that the real significance of the title is quite
lost sight of. Will some one of your correspondents inform me what amount of property really
constitutes an Esquire?

W. L.

    [No fixed amount of property is a qualification for the title or rank
    of Esquire. For the description of persons so entitled to be
    designated, see Blackstone's Commentaries, vol. i.; and the later the
    edition, the greater advantage W. L. will have in the notes and remarks
    of the latest law writers.]

Cromwell Family.--Will some of your correspondents be so good as to inform me, to whom the
children (sons and daughters) of Oliver Cromwell's daughter Bridget were married, those by
her first marriage with Ireton as well as those by her second marriage with Fleetwood. I can
learn but the marriage of one: Ireton's daughter Bridget married a Mr. Bendyshe.

M. A. C.

    [Cromwell's daughter, Bridget, who was relict of Henry Ireton, married
    Charles Fleetwood of Armingland Hall, Norfolk, and Stoke Newington,
    Middlesex: she died, 1681, without any issue by Fleetwood. See
    Fleetwood's pedigree in No. IX. of the Bibl. Topog. Britannica, pp.
    28, 29. By her first husband, Henry Ireton, to whom she was married in
    1646, she had one son and four daughters, of whom a full account will
    be {243} found in Noble's House of Cromwell, vol. ii. pp. 319-329.,
    in which volume will be found an account of the family of Fleetwood.]

Daughters of the Sixth Earl of Lennox.--J. W. wishes for information as to who married, or
what became of the daughters and granddaughters of Charles Stuart, the sixth Earl of Lennox,
and brother of Darnley?

    [The brother of Darnley (the husband of Mary Queen of Scots) was
    Charles, fifth earl of Lennox, who left an only daughter, the
    interesting and oppressed Lady Arabella Stuart, as every common Peerage
    will state.]

Wife of Joseph Nicholson.--Any information as to who was the wife of Joseph Nicholson, who
resided in London the latter part of the seventeenth century, would much oblige one of his
descendants.

He was second son of the Rev. Joseph Nicholson, rector of Plumland, Cumberland, who was married
to Mary Miser, of Crofton.

His eldest brother was Dr. Wm. Nicholson, Bishop of Carlisle, afterwards Bishop of Derry, and
died there 1727. The bishop's nephew, Rev. James Nicholson, son of the above Joseph, came to
Ireland as chaplain to his uncle, and became rector of Ardrahan, co. Galway, and died there
about 1776.

ANDREW NICHOLSON.

    [If our correspondent will refer to the title-page of the Bishop's
    celebrated work, The English, Scotch, and Irish Historical Libraries,
    as well as to his correspondence with Thoresby, the Leeds antiquary, he
    will find his name spelt Nicolson, without the letter h. This
    deserves to be noted, as there was another Dr. William Nicholson,
    consecrated Bishop of Gloucester, A.D. 1660.]

Six Abeiles.--In Mrs. Barrett Browning's beautiful poem, Rhyme of the Duchess May, the following
lines occur:

 "Six abeiles i' the kirkyard grow,
  On the northside in a row."

Will you or some of your readers kindly inform me what abeiles are. From the context, they
would seem to be some kind of tree, but what tree I cannot discover.

M. A. H.

Monkstown, co. Cork, Feb. 18. 1851.

    [Bailey, in his Dictionary, says, "An abele-tree is a fine kind of
    white poplar." See also Chambers' Cyclopædia.]

Southey.--There is a jeu d'esprit attributed to Southey, on the expedition of Napoleon into
Russia, beginning,--

 "Buonaparte must needs set out
  On a summer's excursion to Moscow,"

and ending,--

 "But there's a place which he must go to,
    Where the fire is red, and the brimstone blue,
  Sacre-bleu, ventre-bleu,
    He'll find it hotter than Moscow."

I know this was printed, for I saw it when a boy. Where can it be found?

M.

    [See "The March to Moscow," in Southey's Poetical Works, p. 464.,
    edit. 1850.]

Epigram against Burke.--Can any reader supply me with some lines of great asperity against
Edmund Burke, excited (I believe) by the unrelenting hostility exhibited by Burke against Warren
Hastings?

The sting of the epigram is contained in the last line, which, alluding to the exemption of
Ireland from all poisonous reptiles, runs as follows:--

 "And saved her venom to create a Burke."

And if the said lines shall be forthcoming, I should be glad also to be informed of their reputed
author.

A BORDERER.

    The real author was one Williams, notorious for his nom de guerre,
    Anthony Pasquin.--Townsend's History of Twelve Eminent Judges.]

Knights Hospitallers.--Where may a correct list be found of the names of the several persons
who held the appointment of Master of the Knights Hospitallers in England, from the period
of their first coming until the dissolution of their houses?

S. P. O. R.

    [See Dugdale's Monasticon Anglicanum, new edition, vol. vi. pp.
    796-798.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

MESMERISM.

(Vol. iii., p. 220.)

I am much obliged to your correspondent A. L. R. for his kind notice of my pamphlet on Mesmerism,
and equally so to yourself for inserting it; because it gives me an opportunity of explaining
to him, and others to whom I am personally unknown, and who are therefore not aware of my circumstances
and movements, why the work was not continued without delay. In doing this I will try to avoid
trespassing on your goodness by one word of needless egotism. In my Preface I described my
materials as a "number of fragments belonging to various ages and places," as "scattered facts
and hints" which I had met with in books which were not suspected of containing such matter;
and some of them books not likely to fall into the hands of anybody but a librarian, or at
least a person having access to a public library. It may be easily understood that rough materials
thus gathered were not fit for {244} publication; and that, without the books from which they
had been "noted" and "queried," they could not be made so: and if I had anticipated the course
of events (notwithstanding an inducement which I will mention presently), I should not have
thought of publishing a Part I. But when I sent it to the press, I had no idea that I should
ever return here, or be at an inconvenient distance from the libraries which were then within
my reach, and open to my use. As it was, I regretted that I had done so, and felt obliged to
hurry the pamphlet through the press, that I might pack up these papers, and many other things
more likely to be hurt by carriage, for a residence an hundred miles off; and here they are
in statu quo. I have not attempted to do any thing with them, not only because I have been
very much occupied in other ways, but because I do not know that I could fit them for publication
without referring to some books to which I have not access. At the same time I feel bound to
add, that while I still think that some of the things to which I refer might be worth printing,
yet I do not consider them so important as the matter which formed the subject of the Part
already published. I did think (and that was the inducement to which I have already referred)
that it was high time to call the attention of disinterested and reflecting persons to the
facts alleged by mesmerists, and to the names by which they are attested. I have the satisfaction
of knowing that I have in some degree succeeded in this design. I may perhaps some day find
a channel for publishing the fragments alluded to; but in the mean time, I shall be very glad
if I can supply anything which your correspondent may think wanting, or explain anything unintelligible
in what is published, if he will let me hear from him either with or without his name. I am
sorry to ask for so much space, knowing how little you have to spare; but I cannot resist the
temptation to offer an explanation, which will be so widely circulated, and among such readers
as I know this will be, if you can find room for it.

J. R. MAITLAND.

Gloucester, March 24.

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD HOWARD OF EFFINGHAM.

(Vol. iii., p. 185.)

The following observations, though slight in themselves, may tend to show that Charles Lord
Howard of Effingham, afterwards Earl of Nottingham, was, or professed to be, a Protestant.

1st.

I presume the "neglect of reverence" was apprehended in the case of the English ambassador.

2nd.

3rd. He was one of the commissioners on the trial of Garnet and others; and told him, as he
stood in a box made like a pulpit--

    "Sir, you have this day done more good in that pulpit wherein you now
    stand, than you have done in any other pulpit all the days of your
    life."--Archæologia, vol. xv.

His coffin-plate has been engraved somewhere, and, if his will exists, it might probably settle
the question.

Q. D.

Lord Howard of Effingham (Vol. iii., p. 185.).--There is some proof that he was a Protestant
in the letter of instructions to him from King James (Biog.

May Lord Effingham have changed his religion between the Armada and his mission to Spain?

C. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

IOVANNI VOLPE.

(Vol. iii., p. 188.)

The Volpes were an ancient, noble Florentine family of the second class, some branches of which
according to the usage of Florence, changed their name, and adopted that of Bigliotti. The
object of the change was to remove the disqualification which attached to them, as nobles,
of holding offices under the republic. In illustration of this singular practice, the following
extracts may be cited:

