"I'm sure," said Lucy Gray, looking up at him, tears flowing down her cheeks. "I'm sure, Elijah,
that we are not so very far apart in any way. And if you want to be happy I am sure------"

She did not need to say any more. Elijah Clifford saw happiness looking into his eyes out of
hers and he would have been very much lacking in education if he had not then and there claimed
his own.

They did not hear Mr. and Mrs. Masters approach because sand does not echo under peoples' feet,
but they heard Mr. Masters say to his wife:

"I'm sorry we left the kodak up at the house. I've been hoping and praying for this for the
last two years. And now my prayers have been answered, I would like to have some record of
the fact."

Elijah Clifford and Lucy Gray stood up side by side. They were not embarrassed nor confused.
The light of heaven seemed to shine on them out of that Thanksgiving Day glow in the desert
sky. Their happiness had a sacred divine atmosphere about it that checked even as joyful a
word of congratulation as Mr. Masters was about to speak. Ansa had come running down from the
Mission and seeing Miss Gray and Clifford there she had come up and put her little hands one
in each of theirs.

"Ah!" cried Masters. "This is the picture we want!" while Lucy and Elijah standing there by
Ansa spoke of the years they were now to live together in the sacred union of husband and wife,
consecrated heart and mind to the love of a neglected people, their human happiness intensified
and purified by the service they were to give as one in answer to that which spoke to them
even louder than their own earthly love--the sound of the High Calling.

If, as is easy for the writer and reader, we agree to let a few years slip by, as they have
a way of doing whether we wish to let them or not, we shall find ourselves again in Milton
at the home of the Douglases.

It is Thanksgiving Day again and Esther seems to have even more than the usual happy look on
her face as she says to Helen:

"Isn't it remarkable that Walter coming up from the Isthmus is going to bring Bauer with him
from Berlin? The world is getting smaller every day."

"We must learn to say 'Professor' Bauer, mother. You know Walter wrote that he has several
honorary degrees conferred on him for his inventions. I understand he is held in high respect
at all the universities."

"He will never be anything but plain Felix Bauer to me, Helen. And I hope his honours have
not spoiled him. I don't believe they could."

Helen is silent as she sits down by the window which commands a view of the front walk. Time
has dealt generously and kindly with her. The girlhood has ripened into the stately strong
womanhood. Many suitors have come and gone, among them some noble gentlemen who have received
their answers from her with sore hearts, but Helen still has not seen her ideal of the romantic
days and her heart is yet--she says to herself--free--at least she has refused both wealth
and high character for the vision she has cherished all these years of the nameless one who,
so far, she says, has never appeared to her. And all through this testing, refining process
of growth, she has developed into a spirit of rare strength and grace, of whom Paul and Esther
have been increasingly proud.

Two young men come briskly up the walk. Mrs. Douglas opens the door and rushes out on the porch
as Helen rises to tell her they are coming.

Walter laughingly lifts Esther off her feet as he kisses her and then turns to Helen. Evidently
he has not broken his heart over that romance in the desert.

First greetings over he announced Bauer just as Paul steps into the front room.

"Professor Felix Bauer, F. R. G. S., F. S. S. K. L. G. X. Y. Z. and others. Isn't he great?"

Esther simply says, "Felix, welcome. I do not know how to say 'professor.'"

Bauer lifts her hands to his lips. Helen looks at him as if she were seeing some new vision
at a distance. Felix Bauer smiles in the old way and says:

"Mrs. Douglas, I don't care for these titles. I would gladly give a bushel of them for one
kind word from Walter's mother."

He looks at Helen as he speaks and Helen notes his clear, strong accent and the self-control
and ease of a man who has met the world and looked it in the face without fear and without shame.

It is only when they are seated at the table that Helen has opportunity to note Bauer's strong
face and figure, and wonder at the transformation time and testing have made in him. He still
speaks in the slow deliberate fashion of the other days, but he is a full grown man now, conscious
of power and Helen has to readjust her picture of him as she last saw him.

As the talk goes on, Paul's probing questions, aided by Walter and his mother, bring out the
facts about Bauer which his own modesty would keep in the background.

Sent to Berlin to make special studies of new methods in lighting, he had made the startling
discovery of the formula of the fire fly's secret, and revolutionised the entire system of
city lighting. He had been careless of wealth. Walter drops a hint of thousands given to pay
off old family indebtedness, or charities aided, of new enterprises fostered until Bauer blushingly
begs him to stop.

"Really, Mr. Douglas, I am no millionaire as Walter would make out. Only I have been permitted
to help some this great tuberculosis movement that has been a great joy to me."

Helen catches the vision of consecrated wealth and looks at Bauer again. Then later when they
are seated in front of the old hearth and the lights have been turned on while a heavy snow
falls outside, Bauer in his turn receives a surprise from her.

He has referred to the old days and recurred to the many kindnesses shown to him by Esther
and Helen and the mission workers at Tolchaco. He is delighted to hear of the marriage of Clifford
and Miss Gray, but in all the reminiscent talk he is evidently preoccupied and looks often
at Helen as a hungry and thirsty man would eye the full table from which he may be debarred.

The clock strikes a late hour. He makes a feeble excuse to go and mutters something about not
having observed the time.

"Die Uhr schlagt keinem Glucklichen?" Helen smilingly observes.

Bauer starts in surprise and leans over towards her.

"You speak German?" he asks with a strange look on his face.

"I have had plenty of time to learn it since you left us."

He looks up and sees that the other members of the family have in some way become much interested
in Walter's new plans of electrical dock openers which are spread out on the dining room table.

"You mean since I left you sitting on that log at Tolchaco?"

"Maybe that is what I mean," Helen says, and she is more agitated than she has for years thought
she could be.

"Then you know what 'Loben ist nicht Lieben' means now?"

"Yes, I know that and--

"The world has praised me much since that time, but it is an empty thing. I am a lonesome man,
sitting alone with honour. 'Loben ist nicht lieben?' Is it not so?"

The tears are in Helen's eyes. This man will win her yet. Bauer mutters again.

"Was vonHerzen kommt, geht zu Herzen," and then forgetting that Helen understands he says as
if talking to himself, "'What comes from the heart goes to the heart.' May I come to-morrow
or soon and--tell you what is in my heart?"

Helen smiles as she notes the old sign of distrust in himself that used to mark the old young
Bauer she used to know. But she says with a new note of life in her own voice: "Yes, come to-morrow."

"There will be much for my heart to tell thine," he says dropping inevitably into the endearing
pronoun.

And as he rises and goes away Helen follows his stalwart figure out of the doorway and then
goes and sits down by the fire again.

Her mother finds her there.

"Mr. Bauer, Felix, is coming here to-morrow, mother. I know what he is coming to say."

Esther pauses. Helen answers her unspoken question.

"I am going to find my happiness, mother. It is the highest voice I have heard. I am not afraid
to answer it."

So with all who have fought and prayed and yearned for the overcoming life in this story, may
they all say, "I am not afraid to answer the call when it sounds to me, the sound of 'The High
Calling.'"

THE END