Marriage retained the form of purchase, but was essentially a contract to be man and wife together.
The marriage of young people was usually arranged between the relatives, the bridegroom's father
providing the bride-price, which with other presents the suitor ceremonially presented to the
bride's father. This bride-price was usually handed over by her father to the bride on her
marriage, and so came back into the bridegroom's possession, along with her dowry, which was
her portion as a daughter. The bride-price varied much, according to the position of the parties,
but was in excess of that paid for a slave. The Code enacted that if the father does not, after
accepting a man's presents, give him his daughter, he must return the presents doubled. Even
if his decision was brought about by libel on the part of the suitor's friend this was done,
and the Code enacted that the faithless friend should not marry the girl. If a suitor changed
his mind, he forfeited the presents. The dowry might include real estate, but generally consisted
of personal effects and household furniture. It remained the wife's for life, descending to
her children, if any; otherwise returning to her family, when the husband could deduct the
bride-price if it had not been given to her, or return it, if it had. The marriage ceremony
included joining of hands and the utterance of some formula of acceptance on the part of the
bridegroom, as "I am the son of nobles, silver and gold shall fill thy lap, thou shall be my
wife, I will be thy husband. Like the fruit of a garden I will give thee offspring." It must
be performed by a freeman.

The marriage contract, without which the Code ruled that the woman was no wife, usually stated
the consequences to which each party was liable for repudiating the other. These by no means
necessarily agree with the Code. Many conditions might be inserted: as that the wife should
act as maidservant to her mother-in-law, or to a first wife. The married couple formed a unit
as to external responsibility, especially for debt. The man was responsible for debts contracted
by his wife, even before her marriage, as well as for his own; but he could use her as a mancipium.
Hence the Code allowed a proviso to be inserted in the marriage contract, that the wife should
not be seized for her husband's pre-nuptial debts; but enacted that then he was not responsible
for her pre-nuptial debts, and, in any case, that both together were responsible for all debts
contracted after marriage. A man might make his wife a settlement by deed of gift, which gave
her a life interest in part of his property, and he might reserve to her the right to bequeath
it to a favourite child, but she could in no case leave it to her family. Although married
she always remained a member of her father's house--she is rarely named wife of A, usually
daughter of B, or mother of C.

Divorce was optional with the man, but he had to restore the dowry and, if the wife had borne
him children, she had the [v.03 p.0119] custody of them. He had then to assign her the income
of field, or garden, as well as goods, to maintain herself and children until they grew up.
She then shared equally with them in the allowance (and apparently in his estate at his death)
and was free to marry again. If she had no children, he returned her the dowry and paid her
a sum equivalent to the bride-price, or a mina of silver, if there had been none. The latter
is the forfeit usually named in the contract for his repudiation of her.

If she had been a bad wife, the Code allowed him to send her away, while he kept the children
and her dowry; or he could degrade her to the position of a slave in his own house, where she
would have food and clothing. She might bring an action against him for cruelty and neglect
and, if she proved her case, obtain a judicial separation, taking with her her dowry. No other
punishment fell on the man. If she did not prove her case, but was proved to be a bad wife,
she was drowned. If she were left without maintenance during her husband's involuntary absence,
she could cohabit with another man, but must return to her husband if he came back, the children
of the second union remaining with their own father. If she had maintenance, a breach of the
marriage tie was adultery. Wilful desertion by, or exile of, the husband dissolved the marriage,
and if he came back he had no claim on her property; possibly not on his own.

As a widow, the wife took her husband's place in the family, living on in his house and bringing
up the children. She could only remarry with judicial consent, when the judge was bound to
inventory the deceased's estate and hand it over to her and her new husband in trust for the
children. They could not alienate a single utensil. If she did not remarry, she lived on in
her husband's house and took a child's share on the division of his estate, when the children
had grown up. She still retained her dowry and any settlement deeded to her by her husband.
This property came to her children. If she had remarried, all her children shared equally in
her dowry, but the first husband's gift fell to his children or to her selection among them,
if so empowered.

Monogamy was the rule, and a childless wife might give her husband a maid (who was no wife)
to bear him children, who were reckoned hers. She remained mistress of her maid and might degrade
her to slavery again for insolence, but could not sell her if she had borne her husband children.
If the wife did this, the Code did not allow the husband to take a concubine. If she would
not, he could do so. The concubine was a wife, though not of the same rank; the first wife
had no power over her. A concubine was a free woman, was often dowered for marriage and her
children were legitimate. She could only be divorced on the same conditions as a wife. If a
wife became a chronic invalid, the husband was bound to maintain her in the home they had made
together, unless she preferred to take her dowry and go back to her father's house; but he
was free to remarry. In all these cases the children were legitimate and legal heirs.

There was, of course, no hindrance to a man having children by a slave girl. These children
were free, in any case, and their mother could not be sold, though she might be pledged, and
she was free on her master's death. These children could be legitimized by their father's acknowledgment
before witnesses, and were often adopted. They then ranked equally in sharing their father's
estate, but if not adopted, the wife's children divided and took first choice.

Vestal virgins were not supposed to have children, yet they could and often did marry. The
Code contemplated that such a wife would give a husband a maid as above. Free women might marry
slaves and be dowered for the marriage. The children were free, and at the slave's death the
wife took her dowry and half what she and her husband had acquired in wedlock for self and
children; the master taking the other half as his slave's heir.

A father had control over his children till their marriage. He had a right to their labour
in return for their keep. He might hire them out and receive their wages, pledge them for debt,
even sell them outright. Mothers had the same rights in the absence of the father; even elder
brothers when both parents were dead. A father had no claim on his married children for support,
but they retained a right to inherit on his death.

The daughter was not only in her father's power to be given in marriage, but he might dedicate
her to the service of some god as a vestal or a hierodule; or give her as a concubine. She
had no choice in these matters, which were often decided in her childhood. A grown-up daughter
might wish to become a votary, perhaps in preference to an uncongenial marriage, and it seems
that her father could not refuse her wish. In all these cases the father might dower her. If
he did not, on his death the brothers were bound to do so, giving her a full child's share
if a wife, a concubine or a vestal, but one-third of a child's share if she were a hierodule
or a Marduk priestess. The latter had the privilege of exemption from state dues and absolute
disposal of her property. All other daughters had only a life interest in their dowry, which
reverted to their family, if childless, or went to their children if they had any. A father
might, however, execute a deed granting a daughter power to leave her property to a favourite
brother or sister. A daughter's estate was usually managed for her by her brothers, but if
they did not satisfy her, she could appoint a steward. If she married, her husband managed it.

The son also appears to have received his share on marriage, but did not always then leave
his father's house; he might bring his wife there. This was usual in child marriages.

Adoption was very common, especially where the father (or mother) was childless or had seen
all his children grow up and marry away. The child was then adopted to care for the parents'
old age. This was done by contract, which usually specified what the parent had to leave and
what maintenance was expected. The real children, if any, were usually consenting parties to
an arrangement which cut off their expectations. They even, in some cases, found the estate
for the adopted child who was to relieve them of a care. If the adopted child failed to carry
out the filial duty the contract was annulled in the law courts. Slaves were often adopted
and if they proved unfilial were reduced to slavery again.

A craftsman often adopted a son to learn the craft. He profited by the son's labour. If he
failed to teach his son the craft, that son could prosecute him and get the contract annulled.
This was a form of apprenticeship, and it is not clear that the apprentice had any filial relation.

A man who adopted a son, and afterwards married and had a family of his own, could dissolve
the contract but must give the adopted child one-third of a child's share in goods, but no
real estate. That could only descend in the family to which he had ceased to belong. Vestals
frequently adopted daughters, usually other vestals, to care for their old age.

Adoption had to be with consent of the real parents, who usually executed a deed making over
the child, who thus ceased to have any claim upon them. But vestals, hierodules, certain palace
officials and slaves had no rights over their children and could raise no obstacle. Foundlings
and illegitimate children had no parents to object. If the adopted child discovered his true
parents and wanted to return to them, his eye or tongue was torn out. An adopted child was
a full heir, the contract might even assign him the position of eldest son. Usually he was
residuary legatee.

All legitimate children shared equally in the father's estate at his death, reservation being
made of a bride-price for an unmarried son, dower for a daughter or property deeded to favourite
children by the father. There was no birthright attaching to the position of eldest son, but
he usually acted as executor and after considering what each had already received equalized
the shares. He even made grants in excess to the others from his own share. When there were
two mothers, the two families shared equally in the father's estate until later times when
the first family took two-thirds. Daughters, in the absence of sons, had sons' rights. Children
also shared their own mother's property, but had no share in that of a stepmother.

A father could disinherit a son in early times without restriction, but the Code insisted upon
judicial consent and that only for repeated unfilial conduct. In early times the son who denied
his father had his front hair shorn, a slave-mark put on him, and [v.03 p.0120] could be sold
as a slave; while if he denied his mother he had his front hair shorn, was driven round the
city as an example and expelled his home, but not degraded to slavery.

Adultery was punished with the death of both parties by drowning, but if the husband was willing
to pardon his wife, the king might intervene to pardon the paramour. For incest with his own
mother, both were burned to death; with a stepmother, the man was disinherited; with a daughter,
the man was exiled; with a daughter-in-law, he was drowned; with a son's betrothed, he was
fined. A wife who for her lover's sake procured her husband's death was gibbeted. A betrothed
girl, seduced by her prospective father-in-law, took her dowry and returned to her family,
and was free to marry as she chose.

In the criminal law the ruling principle was the lex talionis. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth,
limb for limb was the penalty for assault upon an amelu. A sort of symbolic retaliation was
the punishment of the offending member, seen in the cutting off the hand that struck a father
or stole a trust; in cutting off the breast of a wet-nurse who substituted a changeling for
the child entrusted to her; in the loss of the tongue that denied father or mother (in the
Elamite contracts the same penalty was inflicted for perjury); in the loss of the eye that
pried into forbidden secrets. The loss of the surgeon's hand that caused loss of life or limb;
or the brander's hand that obliterated a slave's identification mark, are very similar. The
slave, who struck a freeman or denied his master, lost an ear, the organ of hearing and symbol
of obedience. To bring another into danger of death by false accusation was punished by death.
To cause loss of liberty or property by false witness was punished by the penalty the perjurer
sought to bring upon another.

The death penalty was freely awarded for theft and other crimes regarded as coming under that
head; for theft involving entrance of palace or temple treasury, for illegal purchase from
minor or slave, for selling stolen goods or receiving the same, for common theft in the open
(in default of multiple restoration) or receiving the same, for false claim to goods, for kidnapping,
for assisting or harbouring fugitive slaves, for detaining or appropriating same, for brigandage,
for fraudulent sale of drink, for disorderly conduct of tavern, for delegation of personal
service, for misappropriating the levy, for oppression of feudal holders, for causing death
of a householder by bad building. The manner of death is not specified in these cases. This
death penalty was also fixed for such conduct as placed another in danger of death. A specified
form of death penalty occurs in the following cases: gibbeting (on the spot where crime was
committed) for burglary, later also for encroaching on the king's highway, for getting a slave-brand
obliterated, for procuring husband's death; burning for incest with own mother, for vestal
entering or opening tavern, for theft at fire (on the spot); drowning for adultery, rape of
betrothed maiden, bigamy, bad conduct as wife, seduction of daughter-in-law.

A curious extension of the talio is the death of creditor's son for his father's having caused
the death of debtor's son as mancipium; of builder's son for his father's causing the death
of house-owner's son by building the house badly; the death of a man's daughter because her
father caused the death of another man's daughter.

The contracts naturally do not concern such criminal cases as the above, as a rule, but marriage
contracts do specify death by strangling, drowning, precipitation from a tower or pinnacle
of the temple or by the iron sword for a wife's repudiation of her husband. We are quite without
evidence as to the executive in all these cases.

Exile was inflicted for incest with a daughter; disinheritance for incest with a stepmother
or for repeated unfilial conduct. Sixty strokes of an ox-hide scourge were awarded for a brutal
assault on a superior, both being amelu. Branding (perhaps the equivalent of degradation to
slavery) was the penalty for slander of a married woman or vestal. Deprivation of office in
perpetuity fell upon the corrupt judge. Enslavement befell the extravagant wife and unfilial
children. Imprisonment was common, but is not recognized by the Code.

The commonest of all penalties was a fine. This is awarded by the Code for corporal injuries
to a muskinu or slave (paid to his master); for damages done to property, for breach of contract.
The restoration of goods appropriated, illegally bought, or damaged by neglect, was usually
accompanied by a fine, giving it the form of multiple restoration. This might be double, treble,
fourfold, fivefold, sixfold, tenfold, twelvefold, even thirtyfold, according to the enormity
of the offence.

The Code recognized the importance of intention. A man who killed another in a quarrel must
swear he did not do so intentionally, and was then only fined according to the rank of the
deceased. The Code does not say what would be the penalty of murder, but death is so often
awarded where death is caused that we can hardly doubt that the murderer was put to death.
If the assault only led to injury and was unintentional, the assailant in a quarrel had to
pay the doctor's fees. A brander, induced to remove a slave's identification mark, could swear
to his ignorance and was free. The owner of an ox which gored a man on the street was only
responsible for damages if the ox was known by him to be vicious, even if it caused death.
If the mancipium died a natural death under the creditor's hand, the creditor was scot free.
In ordinary cases responsibility was not demanded for accident or for more than proper care.
Poverty excused bigamy on the part of a deserted wife.

On the other hand carelessness and neglect were severely punished, as in the case of the unskilful
physician, if it led to loss of life or limb his hands were cut off, a slave had to be replaced,
the loss of his eye paid for to half his value; a veterinary surgeon who caused the death of
an ox or ass paid quarter value; a builder, whose careless workmanship caused death, lost his
life or paid for it by the death of his child, replaced slave or goods, and in any case had
to rebuild the house or make good any damages due to defective building and repair the defect
as well. The boat-builder had to make good any defect of construction or damage due to it for
a year's warranty.

Throughout the Code respect is paid to status.

Suspicion was not enough. The criminal must be taken in the act, e.g. the adulterer, ravisher,
&c. A man could not be convicted of theft unless the goods were found in his possession.

In the case of a lawsuit the plaintiff preferred his own plea. There is no trace of professional
advocates, but the plea had to be in writing and the notary doubtless assisted in the drafting
of it. The judge saw the plea, called the other parties before him and sent for the witnesses.
If these were not at hand he might adjourn the case for their production, specifying a time
up to six months. Guarantees might be entered into to produce the witnesses on a fixed day.
The more important cases, especially those involving life and death, were tried by a bench
of judges. With the judges were associated a body of elders, who shared in the decision, but
whose exact function is not yet clear. Agreements, declarations and non-contentious cases are
usually witnessed by one judge and twelve elders.

Parties and witnesses were put on oath. The penalty for false witness was usually that which
would have been awarded the convicted criminal. In matters beyond the knowledge of men, as
the guilt or innocence of an alleged wizard or a suspected wife, the ordeal by water was used.
The accused jumped into the sacred river, and the innocent swam while the guilty drowned. The
accused could clear himself by oath where his own knowledge was alone available. The plaintiff
could swear to his loss by brigands, as to goods claimed, the price paid for a slave purchased
abroad or the sum due to him. But great stress was laid on the production of written evidence.
It was a serious thing to lose a document. The judges might be satisfied of its existence and
terms by the evidence of the witnesses to it, and then issue an order that whenever found it
should be given up. Contracts annulled were ordered to be broken. The court might go a journey
to view the property and even take with them the sacred symbols on which oath was made.

The decision given was embodied in writing, sealed and witnessed by the judges, the elders,
witnesses and a scribe. Women might act in all these capacities. The parties swore an [v.03
p.0121] oath, embodied in the document, to observe its stipulations. Each took a copy and one
was held by the scribe to be stored in the archives.

Appeal to the king was allowed and is well attested. The judges at Babylon seem to have formed
a superior court to those of provincial towns, but a defendant might elect to answer the charge
before the local court and refuse to plead at Babylon.

Finally, it may be noted that many immoral acts, such as the use of false weights, lying, &c.,
which could not be brought into court, are severely denounced in the Omen Tablets as likely
to bring the offender into "the hand of God" as opposed to "the hand of the king."

BIBLIOGRAPHY.--Contracts in general: Oppert and Menant, Documents juridiques de l'Assyrie et
de la Chaldée (Paris, 1877); J. Kohler and F. E. Peiser, Aus dem babylonischen Rechtsleben
(Leipzig, 1890 ff.); F. E. Peiser, Babylonische Vertrage (Berlin, 1890), Keilinschriftliche
Actenstücke (Berlin, 1889); Br. Meissner, Beiträge zur altbabylonischen Privatrecht (Leipzig,
1893); F. E. Peiser, "Texte juristischen und geschäftlichen Inhalts," vol. iv. of Schrader's
Keilinschriftliche Bibliothek (Berlin, 1896); C. H. W. Johns, Assyrian Deeds and Documents
relating to the Transfer of Property (3 vols., Cambridge, 1898); H. Radau, Early Babylonian
History (New York, 1900); C. H. W. Johns, Babylonian and Assyrian Laws, Contracts and Letters
(Edinburgh, 1904). For editions of texts and the innumerable articles in scientific journals
see the bibliographies and references in the above works. Der alte Orient, iv. Jahrgang, Heft
4; D. H. Müller, Die Gesetze Hammurabis (Vienna, 1903); J. Kohler and F. E. Peiser, Hammurabis
Gesetz (Leipzig, 1904); R. F. Harper, The Code of Hammurabi, King of Babylon about 2250 B.C.
(Chicago, 1904); S. A. Cook, The Laws of Moses and the Code of Hammurabi (London, 1903).

(C. H. W. J.)

[1] For the transliteration of Babylonian and Assyrian names generally, see BABYLONIA AND ASSYRIA,
section ix., Proper Names.

BACAU, the capital of the department of Bacau, Rumania; situated among the foothills of the
Carpathian Mountains, and on the river Bistritza, which enters the river Sereth 5 m. S. Pop.
(1900) 16,187, including 7850 Jews. Although of modern growth, Bacau is one of the chief commercial
centres in Moldavia, possessing many large timber yards. It is on the main railway from Czernovitz,
in Bukovina, to Galatz; and on two branch lines, one of which enters Transylvania through the
Ghimesh Pass, while both give access to the salt mines, petroleum wells and forests of the
Carpathians.

