A shake of the head was the only answer.

"Been drinking?"

"No." This time the head was lifted and two keen gray eyes, filled with mingled suffering and
anger, looked full in the boss's face. "I've been without work for some time and am hungry,
that's all." The head bent again over the case and the trembling fingers reached for the type.

"Hungry!--Good God, man!" exclaimed Udell. "Why didn't you say so?"--and turning quickly to
the boy he said, "Here, skip down to that restaurant and bring a big hot lunch. Tell 'em to
get a hustle on too."

The boy fled and George continued talking to himself; "Hungry--and I thought he had been on
a spree. I ought to have known better than that. I've been hungry myself--Clara's right; he
is no bum printer. Great shade of the immortal Benjamin F! but he's plucky though--and proud--you
could see that by the look in his eye when I asked him if he'd been drunk--poor fellow--knows
his business too--just the man I've been looking for, I'll bet--Huh--wonder if the wire is
down." And then as the boy returned with the basket of hot eatables, he called cheerily, "Here
you are; come and fill up; no hungry man in this establishment, rush or no rush." He was answered
by a clatter as half a stick full of type dropped from the trembling hand of the stranger.
"Thank you," the poor fellow tried to say, as he staggered toward the kind-hearted infidel,
and then, as he fell, Dick's outstretched fingers just touched Udell's feet.

CHAPTER IV

It was a strange coincidence that the Rev. James Cameron should have preached his sermon on
"The Church of the Future," the Sunday following the incidents which have been related in the
preceding chapters. If he had only known, Rev. Cameron might have found a splendid illustration,
very much to the point, in the story of Dick Falkner's coming to Boyd City and his search for
employment. But the minister knew nothing of Dick or his trouble. He had no particular incident
in mind; but simply desired to see a more practical working of Christianity. In other words,
he wished to see Christians doing the things that Christ did, and using, in matters of the
church, the same business sense which they brought to bear upon their own affairs. He thought
of the poverty, squalor and wretchedness of some for whom Christ died, and of the costly luxuries
of the church into whose hands the Master had given the care of these. He thought of the doors
to places of sin, swinging wide before the young, while the doors of the church were often
closed against them. He thought of the secret societies and orders, doing the work that the
church was meant to do, and of the honest, moral men, who refused to identify themselves with
the church, though professing belief in Jesus Christ; and, thinking of these things and more
like them, he was forced to say that the church must change her methods; that she must talk
less and do more; that she must rest her claims to the love of mankind where Christ rested
his; upon the works that He did.

He saw that the church was proving false to the Christ; that her service was a service of the
lips only; that her worship was form and ceremony--not of the heart--a hollow mockery. He saw
that she was not touching the great problems of life; and that, while men were dying for want
of spiritual bread, she was offering them only the stones of ecclesiastical pride and denominational
egotism. He saw all this, and yet,--because he was a strong man--remained full of love for
Christ and taught that those things were not Christianity but the lack of it; and placed the
blame where it justly belonged, upon the teaching and doctrines of men, and not upon the principles
of Christ; but upon the shepherds, who fattened themselves, while the starving sheep grew thin
and lean; and not upon Him who came to seek and save that which was lost.

Adam Goodrich walked out of the church with his aristocratic nose elevated even beyond its
usual angle. He was so offended by the plebeian tastes of his pastor that he almost failed
to notice Banker Lindsley who passed him in the vestibule.

"Fine discourse--fine discourse, Mr. Goodrich."

"Uh--" grunted Adam, tossing his head.

"Just the kind of sermon we need;" went on Mr. Lindsley, who was not a church member. "Practical
and fearless; I'm glad to have heard him. I shall come again;" and he hurried out of the house.

It was not often that a sermon was honored by being discussed at the Goodrich table; nor indeed,
that any topic of religion was mentioned; but Adam could not contain himself after the unheard
of things which his pastor had preached that morning. "It's a pity that Cameron hasn't better
judgment," he declared, in a voice that showed very plainly the state of his mind. "He could
easily make his church the first church in the city if he would only let well enough alone
and not be all the time stirring things up. He is a good speaker, carries himself like an aristocrat,
and comes from a good family; but he is forever saying things that jar the best people. He
might be drawing half as much again salary if only he would work to get those people who are
worth something into the church, instead of spending all his time with the common herd."

"Perhaps he thinks the common herd worth saving too," suggested Miss Amy, a beautiful girl
of nineteen, with dark hair and eyes.

"What do you know about it?" replied the father. "You're getting your head full of those silly
Young People's Society notions, and your friends will drop you if you don't pay more attention
to your social duties. The common classes are all right of course, but they can't expect to
associate with us. Cameron has his mission schools; why isn't that enough? And he makes three
times as many calls on South Broadway and over by the Shops, as he does on our street."

"Perhaps he thinks, 'they that are whole have no need of a physician,'" again suggested the
young lady.

"Amy," said Mrs. Goodrich, "how often have I told you that it's not the thing to be always
repeating the Bible. No one does it now. Why will you make yourself so common?"

"You agree with Cameron perfectly, mother," put in Frank, the only son; "he said this morning
that no one used their Bibles now-a-days."

"It's not necessary to be always throwing your religion at people's heads," answered the father,
"and as for Cameron's new-fangled notion about the church being more helpful to those who need
help, he'll find out that it won't work. We are the ones who pay his salary, and if he can't
preach the things we want to hear, he'll find himself going hungry, or forced to dig along
with those he is so worried about. I don't find anything in the Bible that tells me to associate
with every low-down person in the city, and I guess I'm as good a Christian as anyone in the
church."

"Brother Cameron said that helping people and associating with them were two different things,"
said Amy.

"Well, it means the same, anyway, in the eyes of the world," retorted the father.

"Fancy," said Frank, "my going down the street with that tramp who called at the office last
week. According to Cameron, you ought to have invited him home and asked him to stay with us
until he found a job, I suppose. Amy would have liked to meet him, and to make his visit with
us pleasant. He was not bad-looking, barring his clothes and a few whiskers."

"Who was that, Mr. Goodrich?" inquired the wife.

"Oh, an impudent fellow that Frank let into the office the other day; he claimed that he was
a printer and wanted work; said that he was thrown out of employment by the Kansas City strike;
anyone could see that he was a fraud through and through, just Cameron's kind. If I had my
way I would give him work that he wouldn't want. Such people are getting altogether too numerous,
and there will be no room for a respectable man if this thing keeps up. I don't know what we'll
come to if we have many such sermons as that this morning; they want the earth now."

"They'd get Heaven too if Cameron had his way," put in Frank again. "Won't it be fine when
the church becomes a home for every wandering Willie who happens along?"

"Did not Christ intend His church to be a home for the homeless?" asked the sister.

"Amy," interrupted Mrs. Goodrich, "you are getting too many of those fanciful notions; you
will learn in time that the church is meant to go to on Sundays, and that people who know what
is demanded of them by the best society, leave socials, aids, missions, and such things to
the lower classes."

"Yes," answered Frank, as he arose to leave the table--"and don't go looking up that bum printer
to teach him the way of the Lord."

The reader must not think that the Goodrichs were unworthy members of the church; their names
were all on the roll of membership, and Frank and Amy were also active members of the Young
People's Societies. Beside this, Adam contributed liberally (in his own eyes at least) to the
support of the gospel; and gave, now and then, goodly sums set opposite his name on subscription
lists, for various charitable purposes; although he was very careful, withal, that his gifts
to God never crippled his business interests, and managed, in religious matters, to make a
little go a long way.

The pastor of the Jerusalem Church, having been called to attend a funeral, was not present
at the meeting of the Boyd City Ministerial Association, following his sermon, and the field
was left open for his brethren, who assembled in the lecture room of the Zion Church on Monday
morning. After the Association had been called to order by the president, the reports of the
work given by the various pastors had been heard, and some unfinished business transacted,
good old Father Beason arose, and, in his calm, impassioned manner, addressed the Chair.

"Brethren," he said, "I don't know how you all feel about it, but I would like to know what
the Association thinks about Brother Cameron's sermon yesterday. Now, I don't want to be misunderstood,
Brethren; I haven't a particle of fault to find with Brother Cameron. I love him as a man;
I admire him as a preacher; and I believe that whatever he has said he meant for the best.
But, Brother Cameron is a young man yet, and I have heard a good deal of talk about the things
he said Sabbath morning; and I would just like to know what you Brethren think about it. Have
any of you heard anything?" Six reverend heads nodded that they had, and the speaker continued:

"Well, I thought probably you would hear something, and with no harm meant toward our Brother,
I would like to have you express yourselves. I have been in the ministry nearly forty years
now, and I have never heard such things as people say he said. And, Brethren, I'm awfully afraid
that there is a good deal of truth in it all--a good deal of truth in it all;" and slowly shaking
his head the old man took his seat.

The Rev. Jeremiah Wilks was on his feet instantly, and, speaking in a somewhat loud and nervous
manner, said: "Mr. Chairman, I was coming down town early this morning, after some thread and
ribbons and things for my wife, and Sister Thurston, who runs that little store on Third Street--you
know she's a member of my church, you know--and always gives me things lots cheaper than I
can get them anywhere else, because she's a member of my church, you know--she says to me that
Brother Cameron said that the average church of to-day was the biggest fraud on earth. Now
she was there and heard him. I don't know of course, whether he really said that or not; that
is, I mean, you know,--I don't know whether he meant it that way or not. But I've heard him
say myself, that he didn't think the church was doing all she might along some lines. I don't
know whether he means all the churches or only his own. My people gave fifteen dollars for
foreign missions last year, and the Ladies' Aid paid fifty dollars on my salary. Besides that,
they bought me a new overcoat last winter, and it will last me through next winter too. They
paid eighteen dollars for that, I'm told; and of course they got it cheap because it was for
me, you know. And we gave a pound social to Sister Grady, whose husband died some time ago,
you know. It took almost all her money to pay funeral expenses--She's a member of my church
you know; so was he, poor man; he's gone now. I'm sure I don't know about Brother Cameron's
church; we're doing all we can; and I don't think it's right for him to talk against the work
of the Lord." The reverend gentleman resumed his seat with the satisfied air of a school boy
who has just succeeded in hitting a hornet's nest, and devoutly wishes that someone would come
along to share the fun.

Little Hugh Cockrell arose, and, crossing his hands, meekly spoke: "Now, Brethren, I don't
think we ought to be hasty in regard to this matter. I would advise caution. We must give the
subject due and careful consideration. We all respect and love Brother Cameron. Let us not
be hasty in condemning him. You know the Scriptures say, Judge not, and I believe we ought
to be careful. We don't know what Cameron meant exactly. Brethren, let us try to find out.
I know I have heard a great many things, and some of my members say that he spoke rather slightingly
of the ministry as a whole, and seemed to think that the church was not practical enough, and
my wife is a good deal hurt about some things that he said about the clergy. But, let's be
careful. I don't want to believe that our Brother would cast a slur in any way upon us or the
church. Let's be cautious and work in a Christianlike manner; find out by talking with people
on the street and in their homes, what he said, and above all, don't let Cameron know how we
feel. We ought not to be hasty, Brethren, about judging our Brother."

There were nods of approval as the minister took his seat, for he was much admired in the Association
because of his piety, and much respected for his judgment. All knew that nothing could possibly
harm them if they followed Rev. Cockrell's advice.

Then the Rev. Dr. Frederick Hartzell reared his stoop-shouldered, narrow-chested, but commanding
figure, and, in a most impressive and scholarly manner addressed the Association.

"Of course I don't know anything about this matter, Brethren; it's all news to me. I am so
confined by my studies that I go on the street very little, and, when I do go out, my mind
is so full of the deep things of the Scriptures, that I find it hard to retain anything that
has to do with the commonplace in life; and in-as-much as the reverend gentleman failed to
consult me as to his sermon, which I understand he calls The Church of the Future, I am unable
to say at present whether his position is orthodox or not. But Brethren, of one thing I am
sure, and I don't care what Cameron or any other man thinks; the orthodox church of to-day
is the power of God unto salvation. God intended that we ministers should be His representatives
on earth, and as such, we ought to have a keen appreciation of the grandeur and nobility of
our calling. After years of study on the part of myself, and after much consultation with other
eminent men, I give it as my opinion that the church of the future will be the same as the
church of the past. All denominations--that is, all evangelical denominations, are built upon
a rock. Upon this rock I will build my church, Matthew 16-18. Brethren, we are secure; even
the gates of Hades cannot prevail against us; and it is proven by the scholarship of the world,
that we shall be the same in the future as we have been in the past. Rev. Cameron, whatever
may be his opinions, cannot harm so glorious an institution. Why, Brethren, we represent the
brains and culture of the world. Look at our schools and seminaries; we must be right. No change
can possibly come; no change is needed. As to the gentleman's remarks about the ministry; if
he made any, I don't think his opinion matters much anyhow, I understand that he is not a graduate
of any regular theological institution; and I'm sure that he cannot harm my reputation in the
least."

Secure in the impregnable position of his own learning and in the scholarship of his church;
amid a hush of profound awe and admiration, the learned gentleman took his seat.

Rev. Hartzell's speech practically finished the discussion of the sermon by the Association.
Indeed, the Rev. Frederick nearly always finished whatever discussion he took part in. One
or two of the remaining preachers tried to speak, but subsided as soon as they caught the eye
of the scholar fixed upon them, and the Association was adjourned, with a prayer by the president
that they might always be able to conduct the Master's business in a manner well pleasing in
his sight; and that they might have strength to always grapple boldly with questions concerning
the church, ever proving true to the principles of the Christ, and following in His footsteps.

While the members of the Ministerial Association were engaged in discussing Rev. Cameron's
much-abused sermon, the printer, George Udell, dropped in at the office of Mr. Wicks, to make
the final payment on a piece of property which he had purchased some months before. Mr. Wicks,
or as he was more often called, Uncle Bobbie, was an old resident of the county, an elder in
the Jerusalem Church, and Rev. Cameron's right-hand man.

"Well," he said, as he handed George the proper papers, "that place is your'n, young man, what
are ye goin' to do with it?"

"Oh I don't know," replied Udell, "it's handy to have round; good building spot, isn't it?"

"You bet it is," returned the other. "There aint no better in Boyd City, an' I reckon I know.
Ye must be goin' to get a wife, talking about buildin'?"

Udell shook his head. "Well, ye ought to. Let's see--this is the third piece of property I've
sold ye, aint it?--all of 'em good investments too--You're gettin' a mighty good start fer
a young man. Don't it make ye think of the Being what's back of all these blessin's? Strikes
me ye'r too blame good a man to be livin' without any religion. George, why don't you go to
church anyway? Don't ye know you ought to?"

"Why don't I go to church," said Udell thoughtfully; "Well, Mr. Wicks, I'll tell you why I
don't go to church. Just because I've got too much to do. I make my own way in the world and
it takes all the business sense I have to do it. The dreamy, visionary, speculative sort of
things I hear at meeting may be all right for a fellow's soul, but they don't help him much
in taking care of his body, and I can't afford to fill my mind with such stuff. I am living
this side of the grave. Of course I like to hear a good talker, and I enjoy the music, but
their everlasting pretending to be what they are not, is what gets me. You take this town right
here now," he continued, pushing his hat back from his forehead; "we've got ten or twelve churches
and as many preachers; they all say that they are following Christ, and profess to exist for
the good of men and the glory of God. And what are they actually doing to make this place better?
There's not a spot in this city, outside a saloon, where a man can spend an hour when he's
not at work; and not a sign of a place where a fellow down on his luck can stay all night.
Only last week, a clean honest young printer, who was out of money through no fault of his
own, struck me for a job, and before night fainted from hunger; and yet, the preachers say
that Christ told us to feed the hungry, and that if we didn't it counted against us as though
we had let him starve. According to their own teaching, what show have these churches in Boyd
City when they spend every cent they can rake and scrape to keep their old machines running
and can't feed even one hungry man? Your church members are all right on the believe, trust,
hope, pray and preach, but they're not so much on the do. And I've noticed it's the do that
counts in this life. Why, their very idea of Heaven is that it's a loafing place, where you
get more than you ask for or have any right to expect."

"Gettin' a little excited, ain't ye?" smiled Uncle Bobbie, though there was a tear twinkling
in his sharp old eyes.

"Yes I am," retorted the other. "It's enough to excite anyone who has a heart to feel and eyes
to see the misery in this old world, and then to be asked eternally, 'Why don't you go to church?'
Why look at 'em; they even let their own preachers starve when they get too old to work. Societies
and lodges don't do that. I don't mean to step on your toes though," he added hastily. "You
know that, Uncle Bobbie. You've proven yourself a Christian to me in ways I'll never forget.
My old mother was a member of the church and they let her go hungry, when I was too little
to take care of her; and if it hadn't been for you she would have died then. But you fed her,
and if there's a Heaven, she's there, and you'll be there too. But what makes me mad is, that
these fellows who never do anything, are just as sure of it as you who do so much."

"Ah, George," said Wicks; "that help I give your maw warn't nothin'. Do you think I'd see her
suffer? Why, I knowed her when she was a girl."

"I know, Uncle Bobbie, but that isn't the question. Why, don't the church do some of the things
they are always talking about?"

"Do infidels do any more?" asked Mr. Wicks.

"No, they don't," answered George, "but they don't thank God that Jesus Christ was crucified,
so that they might get to Heaven, either."

"Thar's one fellow that I didn't feed," said the old man, after a long pause. "That same printer
called here and I didn't give him nothin' to do. I've thought of it many a time since though,
and asked the Lord to forgive me for sech carelessness. And so he's got a job with you, has
he? Well, I'm mighty glad. But say, George, were you at our church yesterday?"

"No," answered Udell, "Why?"

"Oh, nothin'; only I thought from the way you've been preachin' Cameron's sermon, that you'd
heard him give it, that's all."

CHAPTER V

"There's only one girl in this world for me," whistled Dick, as he made a form ready for the
press. Only in his own mind he rendered it, "There's not one girl in this world for me;" and
from Dick's point of view his version was the better one. Thus far in his life there had come
no woman's influence; no loving touch of a girlish hand to help in moulding his character;
no sweet voice bidding him do right; no soft eyes to look praise or blame. He had only the
memory of his mother.

It was less than a week ago that the poor outcast had fainted from lack of food, but he had
already become a fixture in the office. George Udell confided to Miss Wilson that he did not
know how he could get along without him, and that he was, by long odds, the best hand he had
ever had. He was quick and sure in his work, and as George put it, "You don't have to furnish
him a map when you tell him to do anything." With three good meals a day and a comfortable
cot in the office for the night, with the privilege of spending his evenings by the fire, and
the assurance that there was work for him for many weeks ahead, it was no wonder that Dick
whistled as he bent over the stone. Locking up the form, he carried it to the press and was
fixing the guide pins, when the door opened and a young lady came in.

Dick's whistle stopped instantly and his face flushed like a school girl as he gave her a chair
and went to call Udell, who was in the other room trying to convince the boy that the stove
needed a bucket of coal.

"Faith," said Dick to himself, as he went back to the press, "If there is one girl in this
world for me I hope she looks like that one. What a lovely voice," he added, as he carefully
examined the first impression; "and a heavenly smile;" as he finished his work and went back
to the composing case; "and what eyes,"--he turned sideways to empty his stick--"And what hair;"
trying to read his copy--"a perfect form;" reaching for the type again. "I wonder who--"

"Dick!" shouted Udell. Crash went the overturned stool, and, "Yes Sir," answered the young
man, with a very red face, struggling to his feet.

A merry light danced in the brown eyes, though the girlish countenance was serious enough.

Udell looked at his assistant in mingled wonder and amusement. "What's the matter, Dick?" he
asked, as the latter came toward him.

"Nothing, Sir--I only--I was--" he looked around in confusion at the overturned stool, and
the type on the floor.

"Yes, I see you were," said his employer with a chuckle. "Miss Goodrich, this is Mr. Falkner;
perhaps he can help us out of our difficulty. Mr. Falkner is just from Kansas City," he added,
"and is up in all the latest things in printing."

"Oh yes," and Amy's eyes showed their interest. "You see, Mr. Falkner, we are trying to select
a cover design for this little book. Mr. Udell has suggested several, but we cannot come to
any decision as to just the proper one. Which would you choose?"

Dick's embarrassment left him at once when a matter of work was to be considered. "This would
be my choice," he said, selecting a design.

"I like that too," said the young lady; "but you see it is not just what I want;" and she looked
not a little worried, for above all things, Miss Goodrich liked things just as she liked them;
and besides, this was such an important matter.

"I'll tell you what," said Dick. "If you'll let me, and Mr. Udell does not object, I'll set
up a cover for you to-night after supper."

"O, indeed, you must not think of it," said Amy.

"But I would enjoy it," he answered.

"You need to rest after your day's work," she replied; "and besides, it would be so much trouble
for you to come way down here in the night. No, you need not mind; this will do very well."

"But we often work after hours, and I--I--do not live far from here," said Dick.

"What do you think, Mr. Udell?"

"I am sure, Miss Goodrich, that Mr. Falkner would enjoy the work, for we printers have a good
bit of pride in that kind of thing you know, and, as he says, we often work after supper. I
think you might let him do it, without too great a feeling of obligation."

After some further talk, the matter was finally settled as he had suggested, and Dick went
back to his work; as he picked up his overturned stool, he heard the door close and then Udell
stood beside him, with a broad grin on his face.

"Well, I'll be shot," ejaculated the printer, "I've seen fellows take a tumble before, but
hang me if I ever saw a man so completely kerflummuxed. Great shade of the immortal Benjamin
F--! But you were a sight--must be you're not used to the ladies. Seemed all right though when
you got your legs under you and your mouth agoing. What in time ailed you anyway?"

"Who is she?" asked Dick, ignoring the other's laughter, and dodging his question.

"Who is she? Why I introduced you to her, man; her name is Amy Goodrich. Her daddy is that
old duffer who keeps the hardware store, and is so eminently respectable that you can't get
near him unless you have a pedigree and a bank account. Amy is the only daughter, but she has
a brother though who takes after the old man. The girl takes after herself I reckon." Dick
made no reply and Udell continued: "The whole family are members of the swellest church in
the city, but the girl is the only one who works at it much. She teaches in the Mission Sunday
School; leads in the Young People's Society and all that. I don't imagine the old folks like
it though; too common you know." And he went off to look after the boy again, who was slowly
but painfully running off the bill-heads that Dick had fixed on the press.

"What's the matter with him, George?" asked that individual, leaning wearily against the machine;
"Did he faint agin, or was he havin' a fit?"

"You shut up and get that job off sometime this week," answered Udell, as he jerked the lever
of the electric motor four notches to the right.

Just before the whistles blew for dinner, he again went back to Dick and stood looking over
his shoulder at a bad bit of copy the latter was trying to decipher. "Well, what do you think
about it?" he asked.

"She's divine," answered Dick absently, as he carefully placed a capital A upside down.

George threw back his head and roared; "Well, you've got it sure," he said, when he could speak.

"Got what?" asked Dick in wonder.

"Oh, nothing," replied the other, going off with another shout. "But look here;" he said, after
a moment; very serious this time; "Let me give you a piece of good advice, my friend; don't
you go to thinking about that girl too much."

"What girl? Whose thinking about her? You need have no fears on that score," said Dick, a little
sharply.

"Oh, you needn't get mad about it, a fellow can't help but think a chap is hit when he falls
down, can he?" And with another laugh, George removed his apron and left for dinner.

"Yes, it did look bad;" said Dick to himself, as he dried his hands on the office towel; "but
I never saw such eyes; and she's as good as she looks too; but Adam Goodrich's daughter, Whew--"
And he whistled softly to himself as he thought of his first meeting with the wealthy hardware
merchant.

That evening while Miss Goodrich was entertaining a few of her friends at her beautiful home
on the avenue, and while Udell, with Clara Wilson, was calling on old Mother Gray, whose husband
had been injured in the mines, Dick worked alone in the printing office. The little book, as
Amy called it, was a pamphlet issued by the literary club of which she was the secretary, and
never since the time when he set his first line of type, had Dick been so bothered over a bit
of printing. The sweet brown eyes and smiling lips of the young woman were constantly coming
between him and his work, and he paused often to carry on an imaginary conversation with her.
Sometimes he told her funny incidents from his adventurous past and heard her laugh in keen
appreciation. Then they talked of more earnest things and her face grew grave and thoughtful.
Again he told her all his plans and ambitions, and saw her eyes light with sympathy as she
gladly promised her helpful friendship. Then, inspired by her interest, he grew bolder, and
forgetting the task before him altogether, fought life's battles in the light of her smiles,
conquering every difficulty, and winning for himself a place and name among men. And then,
as he laid his trophies at her feet, her father, the wealthy merchant, appeared, and Dick walked
the floor in a blind rage.

But he managed to finish his work at last, and about three o'clock, tumbled on to his cot in
the stock room, where he spent the rest of the night trying to rescue Amy from her father,
who assumed the shape of a hardware dragon, with gold eyes, and had imprisoned the young lady
in a log cabin near the river, beneath a hill upon which grew a pine tree tipped with fire,
while a lean hound sat at the water's edge and howled.

CHAPTER VI

Uncle Bobbie Wicks pulled down the top of his desk and heard the lock click with a long sigh
of satisfaction, for a glance at his large, old-fashioned hunting-case watch told him that
it was nearly eleven o'clock. It was a dismal, dreary, rainy night; just the sort of a night
to make a man thank God that he had a home; and those who had homes to go to were already there,
except a few business men, who like Mr. Wicks, were obliged to be out on work of especial importance.

Locking the rear door of the office and getting hastily into his rain coat, the old gentleman
took his hat and umbrella from the rack and stepped out into the storm. As he was trudging
along through the wet, his mind still on business, a gleam of light from the window of Udell's
printing office caught his eye. "Hello!" he said to himself; "George is working late tonight;
guess I'll run in and see if he's got that last batch of bill-heads fixed yet; we'll need 'em
tomorrow morning. Howdy, George," he said, a few seconds later; and then stopped, for it was
not Udell, but Dick, who was bending over the stone; and in place of working with the type,
he was playing a game of solitaire, while he pulled away at an old corn-cob pipe.

"Good evening," said the young man, pausing in his amusement, "What can I do for you?"

"I see ye got a job," said Uncle Bobbie.

"Yes," Dick replied, as he shuffled the cards; "and a very good one too."

"Huh! looks like ye weren't overworked just now."

"Oh, this is out of hours; we quit at six, you know."

"Strikes me ye might find somethin' better to do than foolin' with them dirty pasteboards,
if 'tis out of hours;" said Mr. Wicks, pointedly.

"They are rather soiled," remarked Dick, critically examining the queen of hearts; and then
he continued, in a matter-of-fact tone, "you see I found them back of the coal box; some fellow
had thrown them away, I guess. Lucky for me that he did."

"Lucky for you? Is that the best you can do with your time?"

"Perhaps you would suggest some more elevating amusement," smiled Dick.

"Well, why don't you read somethin'?"

The young man waved his pipe toward a lot of month-old papers and printers journals--"My dear
sir, I have gone through that pile three times and have exhausted every almanac in this establishment."

"Visit some of your friends."

"Not one in the city except Udell," answered the other, "and if I had--" he glanced down at
his worn clothing.

Mr. Wicks tried again; "Well, go somewhere."

"Where?" asked Dick. "There is only one place open to me --the saloon--I haven't money enough
for that, and if I had, I wouldn't spend it there now. I might go to some respectable gambling
den, I suppose, but there's the money question again, and my foolish pride, so I play solitaire.
I know I am in good company at least, if the sport isn't quite so exciting."

Uncle Bobbie was silent. The rain swished against the windows and roared on the tin roof of
the building; the last car of the evening, with one lone passenger, scurried along Broadway,
its lights brightly reflected on the wet pavement; a cab rumbled toward the hotel, the sound
of the horses' feet dull and muffled in the mist; and a solitary policeman, wrapped in his
rubber coat, made his way along the almost deserted street. As Uncle Bobbie stood listening
to the lonely sounds and looking at the young man, with his corn-cob pipe and pack of dirty
cards, he thought of his own cheery fireside and of his waiting wife. "To-be-sure," he said
at last, carefully placing his umbrella in a corner near the door, and as carefully removing
his coat and hat; "To-be-sure, I quit smokin' sometime ago--'bout a month, I reckon--used to
smoke pretty nigh all the time, but wife she wanted me to quit--I don't know as there is any
use in it." A long pause followed, as he drew a chair to the stove and seated himself. "To-be-sure,
I don't know as there's any great harm in it either." There was another pause, while Dick also
placed his chair near the stove--"and I git so plaguey fat every time I quit."

Dick tilted back and lazily blew a soft cloud into the air. Uncle Bobbie arose and placed the
coal bucket between them. "Told mother last night I was gettin' too fat again--but it made
me sick last time I tried it--I wonder if it would make me sick now."--A longer pause than
usual followed--then: "It's really dangerous for me to get so fat, and smokin' 's the only
thing that keeps it down. D'ye reckon it would make me sick again?" He drew a cigar from his
pocket, almost as big as a cannon fire-cracker and fully as dangerous. "I got this t'day. Looks
like a pretty good one. It didn't use to make me sick 'fore I quit the last time." Dick handed
him a match and two minutes later the big cigar was burning as freely as its nature would permit.

"What an awful wasteful habit it is to-be-sure, ain't it?" went on the old gentleman between
vigorous puffs. "Just think, there's school books, and Bibles and baby clothes and medicine
for the sick, and food for the hungry, and houses and stores, and farms, and cattle, all a'
goin' up in that smoke;" he pointed with his cigar to the blue cloud that hung between them.
"If I had half the money church members burn, I could take care of every old worn-out preacher
in the world, and have a good bit left over for the poor children. I wisht I was as young as
you be; I'd quit it fer good; but it sure does take a hold on an old feller like me."

Dick's face grew thoughtful. "I never looked at it in that way before," he said, as he took
his pipe from his mouth; "It's a big comfort to a chap who is all alone, though I suppose it
does get a strong hold on a man who has used it most of his life; and a fellow could do a lot
of good with the money it costs him." He arose to his feet and went to the window, where he
stood for a moment looking out into the rain. Presently he came back to his chair again; "Look
out," cried Uncle Bobbie, as Dick took his seat, "You've dropped your pipe into the coal bucket."

"Oh, that's all right; its worn-out anyway, and I have another." But he smoked no more that
evening.

"Where are you from?" asked Wicks abruptly.

"Everywhere," answered Dick, shortly, for he did not relish the thought of being questioned
about his past.

"Where you goin'?" came next from his companion.

"Nowhere," just as short.

"Folks livin'?"

"No."

"How long been dead?"

"Since I was a little fellow."

"Ain't you got no relations?"

"Don't want any if they're like an aunt of mine."

Uncle Bobbie nodded in sympathy.

"How'd you happen to strike this place?"

Dick told him in three words, "Lookin' for work."

"Udell's a mighty fine fellow."

"You're right he is."

"Not much of a Christian though." And the old man watched Dick keenly through the cloud of smoke.

"No, good thing for me he isn't," the young man answered bitterly, his face and voice betraying
his feelings.

"I know; yes, I know," nodded Uncle Bobbie. "To-be-sure, I used to look at things just like
you, and then I got more sense and learned a heap better, and I tell you right now that you'll
do the same way. I know there is church members that are meaner'n a mule with shoulder galls.
They won't pull nothin' and would kick a man's head off quicker'n greased lightnin'. But they
ain't goin' to Heaven, be they? Not much they ain't; no more'n my dog's goin' to the Legislature.
And there's them outside the church that's a whole lot worse. Taint Christianity that makes
folks mean, but they're mean in spite of it, though you can't get such fellers as you to see
it that way, no more'n you can foller a mosquito through a mile o' fog. To-be-sure, I aint
blamin' you much though."

