"None at all," I answered promptly, and this time I told the truth.

"You wouldn't understand this then," he ran on, indicating the paper, though he was careful
not to let me have another look at it.

"I saw some of it," I said off-handedly, as if it were no affair of mine, "and it looked to
me like the sort of thing a mathematician would see if he ever got the willies."

"You have a most expressive way of putting things, Carstairs," he said with a smile. There
was more than humor in that smile; there was something in it that looked remarkably like relief.

"I can't stand figures of any sort," I volunteered with a fervent hope in my heart that I wasn't
over-doing my part. "A sheet of them'd just about give me the D.Ts."

He laughed out loud at that and then, expressing a hope that I would make myself at home, he
padded out of the room. It was astonishing how quietly he could walk when he was moving about
the house. For all his gross bulk there was something furtive and cat-like about him that told
me just how insistent must be the menace of a sudden death. He moved so silently that I never
knew he was there until I looked up and saw him. He glided from room to room like some obese
ghost. At first it got on my nerves, but pretty soon I settled down to it, and in a day or
so got quite used to seeing a silent bulk sliding noiselessly about the house, appearing at
all sorts of odd times in all sorts of queer places.

The cook returned about 5 o'clock and seemed rather inclined to take up a high-handed attitude
with me, until a few well-chosen words from her master quietened her down a little. She was
not slow to show me in other ways that she regarded me as an intruder in the house, and if
any one thing about me was more preferable than another it was my room rather than my company.
Still as I kept out of her way as much as possible, and as my sole duties consisted in keeping
an eye on all strangers that approached the place and in listening for any unaccountable sounds,
I came into conflict with her very seldom.

Matters progressed so quietly for the next couple of days that I began to wonder whether I
had not fallen into a sinecure after all. Bryce had procured me a decent outfit so that I was
now my own man again, ready to argue the right-of-way with all comers. Added to that my feet
were well on the mend and my general health was keeping pretty near to the top-notch mark,
so I wasn't finding life such a bad thing after all. Bryce worried me but little. At times
I went odd messages for him, but all my trips were so arranged that I was never away from the
house more than half an hour at a time. The more I thought over the mystery surrounding him
the deeper and more inexplicable it became. I knew of whom he was afraid, but I had no more
idea of the reason of his fear than I had of the name of the man in the moon. My occupation
was more reminiscent of revolutionary South America than of a civilised country, and the thought
of it set me wondering whether Bryce had ever lived amongst the volatile Latins on the other
side of the Pacific. Come to think of it the one man I had seen closely had been a dark type.
It was just barely possible that Bryce had somehow tangled himself in something of the kind.
But then that cipher business--I was fully convinced by now that it was some original kind
of cryptogram--rather pointed the other way. One of the things I had noticed had been a £ sign,
and anything dealing with any of the Latin Republics would almost assuredly have been written
with a $ sign. Ultimately I came to the conclusion that I had been barking up the wrong tree.

