But what a thing to fight about! If duelling were an English fashion, how fruitful of "incidents"
this Session would have been. How often would Mr. TIM HEALY have been "out"? And Mr. DE LISLE'S
life would have hung upon a Lisle thread!

       *       *       *       *       *

Note for strangers about to visit Royat.--The Continental Hotel has lost a little territory,
as half of what was its terrace has been returned to the present proprietor of the hotel next
door, with whom we Continentals have no connection, not even "on business," it not being "the
same concern" and under one management as it was last year. But what the Continental Hotel
has sacrificed in domain, Monsieur HALL, our obliging landlord, has more than made up in comfort
and cooking. Dr. BRANDT sees his patients in a charming Villa of Flowers. The weather is lovely.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are all surprised at seeing one another here. Each person (or each couple or party) seems
to think that he alone (or they alone) possess the secret of Royat's existence. We certainly
are not a mutual admiration society at Royat. When we come upon one another suddenly, each
exclaims, "Hallo! what are you here for?" is if the other were a convict "doing his time."
Everyone thinks he knows what he is here for, but very few tell what he thinks he knows. And,
by the way, the best-informed among us doesn't know very much about it.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the Reading-room of the Cercle there ought to be (as advertised in a local journal) at least
three English newspapers daily. I have not seen them as yet. The only London paper arriving
here regularly, and to be purchased every day early at the Newsvendor's, is the Morning Post.
Vive Sir ALGERNON! Can this be the attraction for Lord SALISBURY? Why come out so far afield
to read the Morning Post? Or wasn't it here, during Lord SALISBURY'S visit last year, and is
he still ignorant of its having been subsequently demanded and supplied this season? And when
he comes and finds it--"O what a surprise!"--no, thank goodness, we have escaped from this
song--for a time, at least.

       *       *       *       *       *

Too hot to write any more journal. The hundredth bell is sounding for the fiftieth déjeuner.
My déjeuner is finished. There are bells here perpetually. All day and all night. In vain would
Mr. IRVING as Mathias, put his hands to his ears and close the windows. The bells! The bells!
Distant bells, near bells, sheep-bells, goat-bells, a man with pipe (not tobacco but tune,
or what he and the goats consider a tune), dinner-bells, guests'-bells, servants'-bells, church-bells
(not much), chapel-bells (early and occasionally), horse-bells, donkey-bells, breakfast-bells,
supper-bells, arrival-bells, departure-bells, tramway bells, crier's-bells, with variations
on drum or trumpet, and several other bells that I shall notice in the course of the twenty-four
hours, but have forgotten just now.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "petits chevaux" have not been stopped by the Government; they are running as fast as ever.
There are two bands, playing morning, afternoon, and evening. The Casino Samie is as lively
as ever, or, as my waggish acquaintance at once expressed it, in that vein of humour for which
he is so specially distinguished, "The Samie old game," and to sit out in the garden, with
a fragrant cigar and coffee, before retiring for the night, is indeed a calm pleasure, or would
be but for the aforesaid waggishness, of which more anon.

       *       *       *       *       *

Soldiers about everywhere, Boulangering. Up in the hills is a splendid echo. This morning,
having caught the very slightest cold, I went up into the mountains to get it blown away. Suddenly
I sneezed. Such a sneeze! It reverberated all over the mountain like the firing of a battery.
Again! again! These sneezes nearly shook me off the rock, and sent me staggering on to the
plateau below. The effect must have been alarming, as the third sneeze fetched out the military,
horse and foot, at full gallop, and the double. L'ennemi? C'était moi! They scoured the mountain
sides, but I did not sneeze again. I have a sort of idea that my sneeze upset the entire preconcerted
arrangements for a review. The Boulangerers retired--so did I.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Tis the hour of douche. RICHARD, the attendant, will be there to give it me. Douche-ment,
douche-ment. Gently does it! O RICHARD, O Mon Roy-at!... Au revoir!

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. R. went to see the première of a new piece about which there had been considerable excitement
in the theatrical world. "It was quite a novelty for me," said the good lady to a friend; "every
literal person was there of any imminence, and my nephew, who is connected with papers himself,
told me that the stalls were full of crickets. He pointed them all out to me. Most interesting."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"GLASS FALLING!"

Head of the House, loquitur:--

  Dear me! Going back? I can hardly conceive it.
    I thought we were in for a spell of "Set Fair."
  A serious change? No, I will not believe it;
                    I can't, I declare.

  I've tapped it with confidence morning by morning,
    This glass which has never deceived me before;
  And now to go wrong in this way, without warning!--
                    It's really a bore.

  Of course it's too bad to be true, for the weather
    So settled has seemed, and has promised so well,
  And why it should go and break up altogether
                    Nobody can tell.

  Tap! Tap! Yes, it's true, it is certainly dropping.
    Things seem--for the moment--a bit out of joint,
  For of course there is not the least fear of its stopping
                    At such a low point.

  No, no, that's absurd; the idea makes one pallid.
    This many and many a day from my door
  Without a top-coat or a gingham I've sallied;
                    And now, will it pour?

  O nonsense! The omens have all been so cheery;
    The Times, in its forecasts, have been so cock-sure.
  Can we all have been wrong? Nay, a prospect so dreary
                    I cannot endure.

  Some local disturbances truly I've heard of.
    Our foes make the most of such little mishaps;
  But then they mean nothing; it's really absurd of
                    The ignorant chaps.

  At Spalding or Coventry weather may vary;--
    And yet, when the "area of change" gets too wide,
  Men fancy it's more than a passing vagary;--
                    Ay, even our side.

  Tap! Tap! Yes there is a perceptible tumble.
    One can't "square" the weather or "get at" the glass.
  A storm? Oh! 'twas merely the least little rumble,--
                    'Twill probably pass.

  Yes. Up in the North there 'tis always unsettled;
    I fancy we shan't be so shifty down South.
  No, really there's not the least call to be nettled,
                    Or down in the mouth.

  I'll take my umbrella,--a useful possession,
    Yes, even in summer with wind in the east.
  But this--oh! it's merely a "local depression";--
                    I hope so, at least!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HAZARD OF A--DYE.

Supposing that when our soldiers and sailors were armed with worthless bayonets and useless
cutlasses, a war had broken out.

And supposing that our Army had been defeated on account of those worthless bayonets.

And supposing our sailors had been slaughtered by hundreds on account of those useless cutlasses.

And supposing the country had been successfully invaded because the nation had improper arms
of defence.

And supposing, wild with ruin, revenge, and misery, the remains of the Army and Navy had met
Sir JOHN ADYE.

Supposing they had. Well, what then?

       *       *       *       *       *

PRIZE PARLIAMENTARY PUZZLE.--"The End of the Session."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A SOOTHING SONG FOR AUGUST.

  Far from placid pleasure
    Fashion's nomads roam;
  Wisdom finds the treasure
  In its fullest measure
    Peacefully at home.

  Free from by-the-way bores
    Of hotel and train,
  Rest we from our labours,
  With our fair young neighbours
    Round us once again.

  Bees in drowsy fettle
    Lazy lilies rob;
  Slumbrously they settle,
  Thrumming like a kettle
    On the Summer's hob.

  Flies their mystic mazes
    Intricately thread,
  Where the sunshine blazes
  Through the cedarn hazes,
    Just above my head.

  Pussy, with her fur feet
    Curled beneath her breast,
  Drowzes where the turf-heat
  Soothes her with a surfeit
    Of delicious rest.

  Now a laughing quarrel
    Stirs the stilly air,
  Where, beyond the laurel,
  With their white apparel
    Glistening in the glare,

  Boys and girls together
    Make a gallant crew,
  Boys in highest feather,
  Girls like summer weather,
    Bright and sweet and true.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR EXCHANGE AND MART.

SOME MORE HOLIDAY INQUIRIES.

NOVEL YACHTING EXPEDITION. UNIQUE CHANCE.--A Gentleman of marked nautical proclivities, who
has lately, through the demise of a great-uncle, come into the possession of a Penny Steamer
in a very fair condition of repair, is anxious to meet with one or two persons of similar tastes
who would be disposed to start with him on a Summer Tour, for the purpose of leisurely navigating
the vessel, in a tentative fashion, round the British Isles. As he would not take a Pilot with
him, but proposes when in doubt either to ask his way from the nearest Coastguard by signal,
or run in shore and get out and walk, he thinks the voyage would not be without excitement
and variety, and would be likely to afford some novel seafaring experience to the naval amateur
in search of pleasing adventure. The course, as at present mapped out, would be from Putney
Bridge to Margate, Plymouth, Holyhead, Skye, Aberdeen, by the German Ocean past Hull, Yarmouth,
Clacton-on-Sea, Southend, back again, finishing the journey at Battersea Reach, but it would
probably be varied by wind and weather, the exigences of which would naturally have to be taken
into account. The crew will consist of three experienced Channel stewards, a bargee, a retired
pirate, and a cabin-boy, and will be under the command of the advertiser, who, though fresh
to the work, has little doubt but that, with a friendly hint or two from his fellow-yachtsmen,
he will be able to manage it. N.B.--Each Passenger provided with a Royal Humane Society's drag.
For all further particulars apply to "PORT-ADMIRAL," 117, Rope Walk, Chelsea, S.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

