[Sidenote: Agitation for Milner's recall.]

The agitation for Lord Milner's recall was continued throughout the year. It was accompanied
by a repetition, in England and on the continent of Europe, of the shameless calumnies upon
the Imperial troops, which had marked the "carnival of mendacity" that led to the second invasion
of Cape Colony. The injurious effect produced upon the Boers in the field by the support thus
given by public men in England to the "continued resistance" policy of the Afrikander nationalists,
has been already noticed, and it is unnecessary, therefore, to say more on this aspect of the
subject. The attempt to discredit Lord Milner culminated in the declaration made by Sir Henry
Campbell-Bannerman, then recognised as the official leader of the Liberal party, at Plymouth,
on November 19th, 1901, that, unless the British Government changed its methods, "the whole
of the Dutch population in our colonies, as well as in the two territories, would in all probability
be permanently and violently alienated from us" when the war was ended. "I am ready to speak
out to-night," he continued, "and to say what I have never yet said, that for my part I despair
of this peril being conjured away so long as the present Colonial Secretary is in Downing Street
and the present High Commissioner is at Pretoria." When the full report of this speech had
reached the Cape, the Vigilance Committee, a body representing the loyalists of both nationalities,
met[297] under the presidency of Sir Gordon Sprigg, and resolved:

         [Footnote 297: December 17th, 1901.]

     "That this committee views with the utmost disapproval the
     statement of Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman at Plymouth, to the
     effect that no satisfactory settlement would be arrived at in
     South Africa so long as Mr. Chamberlain and Lord Milner retained
     their present offices, and, on the contrary, emphatically affirms
     that the retention in office of those statesmen is regarded by
     the South African loyalists as affording the best security for a
     settlement which will be permanent, just, and consistent with the
     honour of the empire and the best interests of South Africa, and,
     further, affirms that the whole tone of Sir Henry
     Campbell-Bannerman's speech is most pernicious, and prejudicial
     to Imperial interests in South Africa, and shows him to be
     entirely out of sympathy with loyalist opinion in South Africa."

With this prompt and uncompromising rejoinder we may take leave of an attempt to remove a great
and devoted servant of the empire, which is as discreditable to the intelligence as it is to
the patriotism of those prominent members of the Liberal party who thus lent their co-operation
to the Afrikander nationalists. In South Africa the issue was simple. While Boer and rebel
combined in their efforts to rid themselves of the man who had thwarted their ambitions, the
loyalists closed their ranks and stood firm in his support. It is to the far-off Homeland that
we have to turn for the spectacle of a nation in which gratitude to the man who upheld the
flag gave place to sympathy for the enemy and the rebel; in which patriotism itself yielded
to a greed of place wrapped up by sophistry in such decent terms as "humanity," "Liberal principles,"
and "conciliation."

[Sidenote: Finances of the new colonies.]

