    The dark jaguar was abroad in the land;
    His strength and his fierceness what foe could withstand?
    The breath of his anger was hot on the air,
    And the white lamb of Peace he had dragged to his lair.

    Then up rose the Farmer; he summoned his sons:
    "Now saddle your horses, now look to your guns!"
    And he called to his hound, as he sprang from the ground
    To the back of his black pawing steed with a bound.

    Oh, their hearts, at the word, how they tingled and stirred!
    They followed, all belted and booted and spurred.
    "Buckle tight, boys!" said he, "for who gallops with me,
    Such a hunt as was never before he shall see!

    "This traitor, we know him! for when he was younger,
    We flattered him, patted him, fed his fierce hunger:
    But now far too long we have borne with the wrong,
    For each morsel we tossed makes him savage and strong."

    Then said one, "He must die!" And they took up the cry,
    "For this last crime of his he must die! he must die!"
    But the slow eldest-born sauntered sad and forlorn,
    For his heart was at home on that fair hunting-morn.

    "I remember," he said, "how this fine cub we track
    Has carried me many a time on his back!"
    And he called to his brothers, "Fight gently! be kind!"
    And he kept the dread hound, Retribution, behind.

    The dark jaguar on a bough in the brake
    Crouched, silent and wily, and lithe as a snake:
    They spied not their game, but, as onward they came,
    Through the dense leafage gleamed two red eyeballs of flame.

    Black-spotted, and mottled, and whiskered, and grim,
    White-bellied, and yellow, he lay on the limb,
    All so still that you saw but just one tawny paw
    Lightly reach through the leaves and as softly withdraw.

    Then shrilled his fierce cry, as the riders drew nigh,
    And he shot from the bough like a bolt from the sky:
    In the foremost he fastened his fangs as he fell,
    While all the black jungle reëchoed his yell.

    Oh, then there was carnage by field and by flood!
    The green sod was crimsoned, the rivers ran blood,
    The cornfields were trampled, and all in their track
    The beautiful valley lay blasted and black.

    Now the din of the conflict swells deadly and loud,
    And the dust of the tumult rolls up like a cloud:
    Then afar down the slope of the Southland recedes
    The wild rapid clatter of galloping steeds.

    With wide nostrils smoking, and flanks dripping gore,
    The black stallion bore his bold rider before,
    As onward they thundered through forest and glen,
    A-hunting the dark jaguar to his den.

    In April, sweet April, the chase was begun;
    It was April again, when the hunting was done:
    The snows of four winters and four summers green
    Lay red-streaked and trodden and blighted between.

    Then the monster stretched all his grim length on the ground;
    His life-blood was wasting from many a wound;
    Ferocious and gory and snarling he lay,
    Amid heaps of the whitening bones of his prey.

    Then up spoke the slow eldest son, and he said,
    "All he needs now is just to be fostered and fed!
    Give over the strife! Brothers, put up the knife!
    We will tame him, reclaim him, but take not his life!"

    But the Farmer flung back the false words in his face:
    "He is none of my race, who gives counsel so base!
    Now let loose the hound!" And the hound was unbound,
    And like lightning the heart of the traitor he found.

    "So rapine and treason forever shall cease!"
    And they wash the stained fleece of the pale lamb of Peace;
    When, lo! a strong angel stands wingèd and white
    In a wonderful raiment of ravishing light!

    Peace is raised from the dead! In the radiance shed
    By the halo of glory that shines round her head,
    Fair gardens shall bloom where the black jungle grew,
    And all the glad valley shall blossom anew!

LATE SCENES IN RICHMOND.

In the July (1864) number of this magazine there is an article entitled "The May Campaign in
Virginia," which gives an outline of the operations of the Army of the Potomac in its march
from its encampment on the Rapidan, through the tangled thickets of the Wilderness, to the
bloody fields of Spottsylvania, across the North Anna, to the old battle-ground of Cold Harbor.
The closing paragraph of that article is an appropriate introduction to the present.

So it has proved. The railroads are destroyed, the bridges burned, the supplies of ammunition
and provision exhausted; the flag of the Union floats over the city which the Rebels have called
their capital; the troops of the Union patrol the streets of Richmond, and occupy all the principal
towns of Virginia; Lee's army has melted away, and the power of the Rebellion is broken.

Before entering upon a narration of the campaign of a week which gave us Richmond and the Rebel
army at the same time, it will widen our scope of vision to inquire

HOW RICHMOND BECAME THE CAPITAL OF THE CONFEDERACY.

On the 17th of April, 1861, Virginia in Convention passed an Ordinance of Secession. The Convention,
when elected on the 4th of February preceding, was largely Anti-Secession; but the events which
had taken place,--the firing on Sumter, its surrender, with the machinations of the leaders
of Secession,--their misrepresentations of the North, of what Mr. Lincoln would do,--their
promises that there would be no war, that the Yankees would not fight,--their bullyings when
they could not cajole, their threatenings when they could not intimidate,--their rejoicings
at the bloodless victory won by South Carolina, single-handed, over a starved garrison,--their
bonfires and illuminations, their baskets of Champagne and bottles of whiskey,--all of these
forces combined were sufficient to carry the Ordinance of Secession through the Convention.
But it was hampered by a proviso submitting it to the people for ratification on the Fourth
Thursday of May following.

John Letcher was Governor of Virginia. Weak in intellect, grovelling in his tastes, often drunk,
rarely sober, at times making such beastly exhibition of himself that the Richmond press pronounced
him a public nuisance, he was a fit tool of the Secession conspirators. Ready to do what he
could to commit the State to overt acts against the United States Government, on the evening
after the passage of the Ordinance he issued orders to the State militia around Winchester
to seize the Arsenal at Harper's Ferry,--on his own sole responsibility, and without a shadow
of authority from the people of the State, inaugurating civil war, a proceeding which he followed
up directly afterwards by proclaiming Virginia a member of the Confederacy, and thus carrying
the State at once out of the Union, without awaiting the formality of a popular vote.

Already the intentions of the Confederate Government were manifest.

"I prophesy that the flag which now flaunts the breeze here will float over the old Capitol
in Washington before the first of May," said Mr. L.P. Walker, Secretary of War, the evening
after the fall of Sumter, to a crazy crowd in Montgomery, then the Rebel capital. That filthy
cage of unclean birds must and will assuredly be purified by fire," shouted John Mitchell,
through the "Richmond Examiner," on the 23d of April.

"Washington City will soon be too hot to hold Abraham Lincoln and his Government," wrote the
editor of the "Raleigh Standard" on the 24th.

"We are in lively hope, that, before three months roll by, the Government, Congress, Departments
and all, will have been removed to the present Federal capital," wrote the Montgomery correspondent
of the "Charleston Courier" on the 28th of the same month.

The Rebel Congress had already adjourned, and was on its way to Richmond. Not only Congress,
but all the Departments, were on the move, intending to tarry at Richmond but a day or two,
till General Scott, and Abraham Lincoln, and the Yankees, who were swarming into Washington,
were driven out. Thus Richmond became, though only temporarily, as all hands in the South supposed,
the capital of the Confederacy.

A week later Jeff Davis was welcomed to Richmond by the people, says Pollard, the author of
the "Southern History of the War," an implacable hater of the North, "with a burst of genuine
joy and enthusiasm to which none of the military pageants of the North could furnish a parallel."
President Davis, in response to the call of the populace, made a speech, in which he said,--

"When the time and occasion serve, we shall smite the smiter with manly arms, as did our fathers
before us, and as becomes their sons. To the enemy we leave the base acts of the assassin and
incendiary; to them we leave it to insult helpless women: to us belongs vengeance upon men.
We will make the battle-fields in Virginia another Buena Vista, drenched with more precious
blood than flowed there."

But Colonel Robert E. Lee, who was in command of the Rebel forces in Virginia, was not quite
ready to take Washington; and so the Rebel Congress commenced its sessions in the State capital.
Mr. Memminger set up his printing-presses, and issued his promises to pay the debts of the
Confederacy two years after the treaty of peace with the United States; Mr. Mallory began to
consider how to construct rams; while Mr. Toombs, and his successor, Mr. Benjamin, wrote letters
of instruction from the State Department to Rebel agents in Europe, and looked longingly and
expectantly for immediate recognition of the Confederacy as an independent power among the nations.

The sleepy city awoke to a new life. Regiments of infantry came pouring in, not only from the
hills and valleys of the Old Dominion, but from every nook and corner of the Confederate States,--the
Palmetto Guards, Marion Rifles, Jeff-Davis Grays, Whippy-Swamp Grenadiers, Chickasaw Braves,
Tigers, Dare-Devils, and Yankee-Butchers,--fired with patriotism and whiskey, proud to be in
Richmond, to march through its streets, beneath the flags wrought by the fair ladies of the
sunny South, for whom each man had sworn to kill a Yankee! Lieutenants, captains, majors, colonels,
and generals, glittering with golden stars, with clanking sabres, and twinkling spurs, thronged
the hotels in all the pomp of modern chivalry. With the marching of troops, and the gathering
of men from every precinct of the Confederacy in search of official position in the bureaus
or to obtain contracts from Government,--with the rush and whirl of business, and the inflation
of prices of all commodities,--with the stream of gayety and fashion attendant upon the Confederate
court, where Mrs. Jefferson Davis was queen-regnant,--with its gilded drinking-saloons and
gambling-hells,--Richmond became a Babylon.

"ON TO RICHMOND!"

It was a natural cry, that slogan of the North in the early months of the war; for, in ordinary
warfare, to capture an enemy's capital is equivalent to conquering a peace. It was thought
that the taking of Richmond would be the end of the Rebellion. Time has disabused us of this
idea. To have taken Richmond in 1861 would only have been the repacking of the Department trunks
for Montgomery or some other convenient Southern city. The vitality of the Rebellion existed
not in cities, towns, or capitals, but in that which could die only by annihilation,--Human
Slavery. That was and is the "original sin" of the Rebellion,--the total depravity and innate
heinousness, to use theological terminology, without which there could not have been treason,
secession, and rebellion.

But forgetting all this,--looking constantly at effect, without searching for cause,--hearing
only the drum-beat of the armed legions of the South mustering for the overthrow of the nation,--wilfully
shutting our ears to the clanking of the chains of the slave-coffle,--deaf to the prayer, "How
long, O Lord?" uttered morning, noon, and night by men and women who were turned back to bondage
from our lines,--forgetting that Justice and Right are the foundations of the throne of God,--the
army of General McDowell marched confidently out to Bull Run on its way to Richmond, and returned
to Washington defeated, routed, disorganized, humiliated. And yet we now see that to the South
the victory which set the whole Confederacy on flame was a defeat, and to the North that which
seemed an overwhelming disaster was a triumph; for so God changes the warp and woof of human
events. The Southern leaders became over-confident. They could have taken Washington, but did
not make the attempt to do so till the golden moment had passed, never to return. "We have
let Washington slip through our fingers," was the bitter lamentation of the "Richmond Examiner,"
a few days after the Battle of Bull Run,--after the second uprising of the people to save the
Union.

When God takes a proud and wayward nation in hand, and instructs it by the hard lessons of
adversity,--by plans overthrown, ambition checked, pride humiliated, and hopes disappointed,
which wring tears from the eyes of widows and orphans, and by which men in the prime of life
are bowed down to the grave with grief for sons slain in battle,--He does it for a great purpose.
But the nation was blind to the moral of the terrible lesson. We are slow to receive and accept
eternal truths. And so, instead of aiming at Slavery as the life of the Rebellion, McClellan
marched up the Peninsula through the mud to capture Richmond, and conquer a peace simply by
taking the Rebel capital. He was learned in military lore, had visited Europe, and made war
after the European pattern. But in a war of ideas and principles, the mere taking of an enemy's
capital cannot end the contest. In such a strife there is the war of invisible forces,--the
marshalling of Cherubim and Seraphim against rebellious hosts,--the old contest of the heavenly
fields renewed on earth.

The nation was long in awaking to the consciousness that driving Lee out of Richmond would
not end the Rebellion. It was more than this: it was a casting-out of prejudice, a discarding
of political chicanery and a time-serving policy, and a recognition of Justice, Right, and
Freedom as the true elements of political economy. There was an increasing desire on the part
of the people to root out Slavery from American soil.

It will be for the future historian to trace the providential dealings of God with the nation,
and to show how far and in what degree the failure of Burnside at Fredericksburg and of Hooker
at Chancellorsville was affected by the want of moral perceptions on the part of the army and
of the people at that stage of the war: for there were thousands of officers and soldiers at
that time who were not willing to fight by the side of a negro. We have not advanced far enough
even now to allow the colored man full privileges of citizenship. We are willing that he should
be a soldier, carry a gun, and fire a bullet at the enemy; but are we willing that he should
march up to the ballot-box, and fire a peaceful ballot against the same enemy? Strange incongruity!

The colored men of Richmond, of Charleston, of Savannah, of all the South, have been and are
now the true Union men of the seceded States. When or where have they raised their hands against
the Union? They have fought for the flag of the Union, and have earned by their patriotism
and valor a name and a place in history. Citizenship is theirs by natural right; besides, they
have earned it. Make the freedman a voter, a land-owner, a tax-payer, permit him to sue and
be sued, give him in every respect free franchise, and the recompense will be security, peace,
and prosperity. Anything less than absolute right will sooner or later bring trouble in its
train. Now, in this day of settlement, this reconstruction of the nation, this renewal of life,
it is the privilege of America to become the world's great teacher and benefactor.

After the disaster at Chancellorsville, there came a season of sober reflection, and men began
to understand that this is God's war. Then there came a commander who believed that the power
of the Rebellion lay not in Richmond, but in the Rebel army, and that the taking of Richmond
was altogether a secondary consideration,--that the only way of subduing the Rebellion was
to fight it down. He was ready to employ soldiers of every hue. This brings us to consider

HOW RICHMOND WAS TAKEN.

General Grant, fresh from his great success at Vicksburg and Chattanooga, having shown that
he had military genius of a high order, was created Lieutenant-General, and appointed to the
command of all the armies of the Union in the field. It was the beginning of a new régime.
Up to that time there had been little concert of action between commanders. The armies lacked
a head. The President, General Halleck, Secretary Stanton, had ideas of their own upon the
best methods and plans for conducting the war. Department commanders worked at cross purposes.
Each officer in the field naturally looked upon his sphere of action as the most important
of all, and each had his own plan of operations to lay before the Secretary of War. A million
men were tugging manfully at the Car of Freedom, which was at a stand-still, or moved only
by inches, because they had no head. But when the President appointed General Grant to the
command, he gave up his own plans, while General Halleck became a subordinate. The department
commanders found all their plans set aside. There was not merely concert of action, but unity
of action, under the controlling force of an imperial will.

In the article entitled "The May Campaign in Virginia," the movements of the Army of the Potomac,
from the Rapidan to Cold Harbor, are given. It is not intended in the present article to dwell
in detail upon all the subsequent movements of that army and its allies, the Armies of the
James and the Shenandoah. Volumes are needed to narrate the operations around Petersburg,--the
battles fought on the 18th and 19th of June east of that city,--the struggles for the Weldon
Railroad,--the movements between the James and the Appomattox, and north of the James,--the
failure in the springing of the mine,--the march of the Fifth Corps to Stony Creek,--the battles
between the Weldon Road and Hatcher's Run,--the many contests, sharp, fierce, and bloody, between
the opposing lines, whenever an attempt was made by either army to erect new works,--the fights
on Hatcher's Run,--the attack upon Fort Harrison, north of the James,--the successive attempts
of each commander to break the lines of the other, ending with the Fort Stedman affair, the
last offensive effort of General Lee. The new campaign which was inaugurated the next day after
the attack on Fort Stedman compelled the Rebel chief to stand wholly on the defensive.

The appointment of General Grant to the command of all the armies was not only the beginning
of a new régime, but the adoption of a new idea,--that Lee's army was the objective point,
rather than the city of Richmond.

"The power of the Rebellion lies in the Rebel army," said General Grant to the writer one evening
in June last. We had been conversing upon Fort Donelson and Pittsburg Landing. One by one his
staff officers dropped off to their own tents, and we were alone. It was a quiet, starlit night.
The Lieutenant-General was enjoying his fragrant Havana cigar, and was in a mood for conversation,
not upon what he was going to do, but upon what had been done. He is always wisely reticent
upon the present and future, but agreeably communicative upon what has passed into history.

"I have lost a good many men since the army left the Rapidan, but there was no help for it.
The Rebel army must be destroyed before we can put down the Rebellion," he continued.[I]

There was a disposition at that time on the part of the disloyal press of the North to bring
General Grant into bad odor. He was called "The Butcher." Even some Republican Congressmen
were ready to demand his removal. General Grant alluded to it and said,--

"God knows I don't want to see men slaughtered; but we have appealed to arms, and we have got
to fight it out."

He had already given public utterance to the expression,--"I intend to fight it out on this
line, if it takes all summer."

Referring to the successive flank movements which had been made, from the Rapidan to the Wilderness,
to Spottsylvania, to the North Anna, to the Chickahominy, to Petersburg, he said,--

"My object has been to get between Lee and his southern communications."

At that time the Weldon Road was in the hands of the enemy, and Early was on a march down the
Valley, towards Washington. This movement was designed to frighten Grant and send him back
by steamboat to defend the capital; but the Sixth Corps only was sent, while the troops remaining
still kept pressing on in a series of flank movements, which resulted in the seizure of the
Weldon Road. That was the most damaging blow which Lee had received. He made desperate efforts
to recover what had been lost, but in vain. It was the beginning of the end. Then the public
generally could see the meaning of General Grant's strategy,--that the Wilderness, Spottsylvania,
and all the terrible battles which had been fought, were according to a plan, which, if carried
out, must end in victory. The Richmond newspapers, which had ridiculed the campaign, and had
found an echo in the disloyal press of the North, began to discuss the question of supplies;
and to keep their courage up, they indulged in boastful declarations that the Southside Railroad
never could be taken.

The march of Sherman from Atlanta to Savannah and through South Carolina, destroying railroads
and supplies,--the taking of Wilmington,--Sheridan's movement from Winchester up the Valley
of the Shenandoah, striking the James River Canal and the Central Railroad, and then the transfer
of his whole force from the White House to the left flank of the Army of the Potomac,--were
parts of a well matured design to weaken Lee's army.

Everything was ready for the final blow. The forces of General Grant were disposed as follows.
The Army of the James, composed of the Twenty-Fourth and Twenty-Fifth Corps, and commanded
by General Ord, was north of the James River, its right flank resting near the old battle-field
of Glendale, and its left flank on the Appomattox. The Ninth Army Corps--the right wing of
the Army of the Potomac--was next in line, then the Sixth, and then the Second, its left resting
on Hatcher's Run. The Fifth was in rear of the Second. The line thus held was nearly forty
miles in length, defended on the front and rear by strong earthworks and abatis.

General Grant's entire force could not have been much less than a hundred and thirty thousand,
including Sheridan's cavalry, the force at City Point, and the provisional brigade at Fort
Powhatan. Lee's whole force was not far from seventy thousand,--or seventy-five thousand, including
the militia of Richmond and Petersburg; but he was upon the defensive, and held an interior
and shorter line.

The work which General Grant had in hand was the seizure of the Southside Railroad by an extension
of his left flank. He had attempted it once with the Fifth Corps, at Dabney's Mill, and had
failed; but that attempt had been of value: he had gained a knowledge of the country. His engineers
had mapped it, the roads, the streams, the houses. The fight at Dabney's Mill was a random
stroke,--a "feeling of the position," to use a term common in camp,--which enabled him to detect
the weak point of Lee's lines. To comprehend the movement, it is necessary to understand the
geographical and topographical features of the country, which are somewhat peculiar. Hatcher's
Run is a branch of the Nottoway River, which has its rise in a swamp about four miles from
the Appomattox and twenty southwest of Petersburg. The Southside Railroad runs southwest from
Petersburg, along the ridge of land between the Appomattox and the head-waters of the Nottoway,
protected by the swamp of Hatcher's Run and by the swamp of Stony Creek, another tributary
of the Nottoway.

The point aimed at by General Grant is known as the "Five Forks," a place where five roads
meet, on the table-land between the head-waters of Hatcher's Run and Stony Creek. It was the
most accessible gateway leading to the railroad. If he could break through at that point, he
would turn Lee's flank, deprive him of the protection of the swamps, use them for his own cover,
and seize the railroad. To take the Five Forks was to take all; for the long and terrible conflict
had become so shorn of its outside proportions, so reduced to simple elements, that, if Lee
lost that position, all was lost,--Petersburg, Richmond, his army, and the Confederacy.

Surprise is expressed that the Rebellion went down so suddenly, in a night, at one blow, toppling
over like a child's house of cards, imposing to look upon, yet of very little substance; but
the calculations of General Grant were to give a finishing stroke.

If, by massing the main body of his troops upon the extreme left of his line, he succeeded
in carrying the position of the Five Forks, it would compel Lee to evacuate Richmond. Lee's
line of retreat must necessarily be towards Danville; but Grant, at the Five Forks, would be
nearer Danville by several miles than Lee; and he would thus, instead of the exterior line,
have the interior, with the power to push Lee at every step farther from his direct line of
retreat. That Grant saw all this, and executed his plan, is evidence of great military ability.
The plan involved not merely the carrying of the Five Forks, but great activity afterwards.
The capture of Lee was a forethought, not an afterthought.

"Commissaries will prepare twelve days' rations," was his order, which meant a long march,
and the annihilation of Lee's army. An ordinary commander might have been satisfied with merely
breaking down the door, and seizing the railroad, knowing that it would be the beginning of
dissolution to the Rebel army; but Grant's plan went farther,--the routing of the burglar from
his house, and dispatching him on the spot. Perhaps Lee saw what the end would be, and did
the best he could with his troops; but inasmuch as he did not issue the order for the transfer
of a division from Richmond to the south side till Saturday night, after the Five Forks were
lost, it may be presumed that he did not fully comprehend the importance of holding that gateway.
If he had seen that Richmond must be eventually evacuated, he might have saved his army by
a sudden withdrawal from both Richmond and Petersburg on Friday night, pushing down the Southside
Road, and throwing his whole force on Sheridan and the Fifth Corps, which would have enabled
him to reach Danville. Not doing that, he lost all.

It is not intended in this article to give the details of the attack at the Five Forks and
along the line, but merely to show how the forces were wielded in that last magnificent, annihilating
blow.

On the 25th of March, the Twenty-Fourth Corps was transferred from the north side of the James
to Hatcher's Run, taking the position of the Second Corps.

The force designed for the attack upon the Five Forks was composed of the Fifth Corps and Sheridan's
Cavalry,--the whole under command of Sheridan. The Second Corps was massed across Hatcher's
Run, and kept in position to frustrate any attempt which might be made to cut Sheridan off
from the support of the main army.

Sheridan found a large force in front of him, along Chamberlain's Creek, three miles west of
Dinwiddie Court-House. He had hard fighting, and was repulsed. There was want of cooperation
on the part of Warren, commanding the Fifth Corps, who was relieved of his command the next
morning, General Griffin succeeding him. A heavy rain-storm came on. Wagons went hub-deep in
the mud. The swamps were overflowed. The army came to a stand-still. The soldiers were without
tents. Thousands had thrown away their blankets. There was gloom and discouragement throughout
the camp. But all the axes and shovels were brought into requisition, and the men went to work
building corduroy roads. It was much better for the morale of the army than to sit by bivouac-fires
waiting for sunny skies. The week passed away. The Richmond papers were confident and boastful
of final success.

"We are very hopeful of the campaign which is opening, and trust that we are to reap a large
advantage from the operations evidently near at hand.... We have only to resolve that we will
never surrender, and it will be impossible that we shall ever be taken," said the "Sentinel,"
in its issue of Saturday morning, April 1st, the last paper ever issued from that office. The
editor was not aware of the fact, that on Friday evening, while he was penning this paragraph,
Sheridan was bursting open the door at the Five Forks and had the Rebellion by the throat.

It would be interesting to follow the troops in their victorious advance upon Petersburg, their
closing in upon Lee, the magnificent tactics of the pursuit, and the scenes of the surrender;
but in this article we have space only to glance at

SCENES IN RICHMOND.

"My line is broken in three places, and Richmond must be evacuated," was Lee's despatch to
Davis, received by the arch-traitor at eleven and a half o'clock in St. Paul's Church. He read
it with blanched cheeks, and left the church in haste.

Davis had robbed the banks of Virginia a few days before, seizing the bullion in the name of
the Confederacy; and his first thought was how to secure the treasure.

He hurried to the executive mansion, passed up the winding stairway to his business apartment,
seated himself at a small table, wrote an order for the removal of the coin to Danville, and
for the evacuation of the city.

There was no evening service in the churches on that Sunday. Ministers and congregations were
otherwise employed. The Reverend Mr. Hoge, ablest of the Presbyterian pastors, fiercest advocate
of them all for Slavery as a divine missionary institution, bitterest hater of the North, packed
his carpet-bag and took a long Sabbath-day's journey towards the South. The Reverend Mr. Duncan,
of the Methodist Church, did the same work of necessity. Lumpkin, who for many years has kept
a slave-trader's jail, also had a work of necessity on hand,--fifty men, women, and children,
who must be saved to the missionary institution for the future enlightenment of Africa. Although
it was the Lord's day, (perhaps he was comforted by the thought, that, the better the day,
the better the deed,) the coffle-gang was made up in the jail-yard, within pistol-shot of Davis's
parlor-window, within a stone's throw of the Monumental Church, and a sad and weeping throng,
chained two and two, the last slave-coffle that shall ever tread the streets of Richmond, were
hurried to the Danville Depot. Slavery being the corner-stone of the Confederacy, it was fitting
that this gang, keeping step to the music of their clanking chains, should accompany Jeff Davis's
secretaries, Benjamin and Trenholm, and the Reverend Messrs. Hoge and Duncan, in their flight.
The whole Rebel Government was on the move, and all Richmond desired to be. No thoughts of
taking Washington now, or of the flag of the Confederacy flaunting in the breeze over the old
Capitol! Hundreds of officials were at the depot, to get away from the doomed city. Public
documents, the archives of the Confederacy, were hastily gathered up, tumbled into boxes and
barrels, and taken to the trains, or carried into the streets and set on fire. Coaches, carriages,
wagons, carts, wheelbarrows, everything in the shape of a vehicle was brought into use. There
was a jumble of boxes, chests, trunks, valises, carpet-bags,--a crowd of excited men sweating
as they never sweat before,--women with dishevelled hair, unmindful of their wardrobes, wringing
their hands,--children crying in the crowd,--sentinels guarding each entrance to the train,
pushing back at the point of the bayonet the panic-stricken multitude, giving precedence to
Davis and the high officials, and informing Mr. Lumpkin that his niggers could not be taken.
Oh, what a loss was there! It would have been fifty thousand dollars out of somebody's pocket
in 1861, but millions now of Confederate promises to pay, which the hurrying multitude and
that coffled gang were treading under foot,--literally trampling the bonds of the Confederate
States of America in the mire, as they marched to the station; for the streets were as thickly
strown with four per cents, six per cents, eight per cents as the forest with last year's leaves.

"The faith of the Confederate States is pledged to provide and establish sufficient revenues
for the regular payment of the interest, and for the redemption of the principal," read the
bonds; but there was a sudden eclipse of faith, and not merely an eclipse, but a collapse,
a shrivelling up, like a parched scroll, of the entire Confederacy, which, like its bonds,
notes, and certificates of indebtedness, was old rags!

In the Sabbath evening twilight, the trains, with the fugitive Government, its stolen bullion,
and its Doctors of Divinity on board, moved out from the city.

At the same hour, the Governor of Virginia, William Smith, and the Assembly, were embarked
in a canal-boat, on the James River and Kanawha Canal, moving for Lynchburg. On all the roads
were men, women, and children, in carriages of every description, with multitudes on horseback
and on foot, fleeing from the Rebel capital. Men who could not get away were secretly at work,
during those night-hours, burying plate and money in gardens; ladies secreted their jewels,
barred and bolted their doors, and passed a sleepless night, fearful of the morrow, which would
bring the hated, despised, Vandal horde of Yankee ruffians: for such were the epithets which
they had persistently applied to the soldiers of the Union throughout the war.

But before the entrance of the Union army they had an experience from their friends. Following
the example of the Government, which had robbed the banks, the soldiers pillaged the city,
breaking open stores, and helping themselves to whatever suited their convenience and taste,
of clothing, fancy goods, eatables, and drinkables.

But the Government itself was not quite through with its operations in Richmond. The Secretary
of War, John C. Breckinridge, with General Ewell, remained till daylight on Monday morning
to clear up things,--not to burn public archives in order to destroy evidence of Confederate
villany, but to commit more crime, so deep, damning, that the stanchest friends of the Confederacy
recoil with horror from the act.

To prevent the United States from obtaining possession of a few thousand hogsheads of tobacco,
a thousand houses were destroyed by fire, the heart of the city was eaten out,--all of the
business portions, all the banks and insurance-offices, half of the newspapers, mills, depots,
bridges, foundries, workshops, dwellings, churches, thirty squares in all, swept clean by the
devouring flames. It was the work of the Confederate Government. And not only this, but human
life was remorselessly sacrificed.

In the outskirts of the city, on the Mechanicsville road, was the almshouse, filled with the
lame, the blind, the halt, the bedridden, the sick, and the poor. Ten rods distant was a magazine
containing fifteen or twenty kegs of powder, of little value to a victorious army with full
supplies of ammunition. They could have been rolled into the creek near at hand; but the order
of Jeff Davis was to blow up the magazines, and the order must be executed.

"We give you fifteen minutes to get out of the way," was the sole notice to that crowd of helpless
creatures lying in their cots, at three o'clock in the morning. Men and women begged for mercy.
In vain their cries. The officer in charge of the matter was inexorable. Clotheless and shoeless,
the inmates of the almshouse ran in terror from the spot to seek shelter in the ravines. But
there were those who could not run, who, while the train was laying, rent the air with shrieks
of terror. The train was fired at the expiration of the allotted time. The whole side of the
house went in with a crash, as if it were no more than pasteboard. Windows flew into minutest
particles. Bricks, stones, timbers, beams, and boards went whirling through the air. Trees
were wrenched off as though a giant had twisted them into withes. The city rocked as if upheaved
by an earthquake. The dozen poor wretches remaining in the almshouse were torn to pieces. Their
bodies were but blackened masses of flesh, when the fugitives who had sought shelter in the
fields returned to the shattered ruins.

How stirring the events of that morning! Lee retreating, Grant pursuing; Davis a fugitive;
the Governor and Legislature of Virginia seeking safety in a canal-boat; Doctors of Divinity
fleeing from the wrath to come; the troops of the Union marching up the streets; the old flag
waving over the Capitol; Rebel iron-clads blowing up; Richmond in flames; the fiery billows
rolling on from house to house, from block to block, from square to square, unopposed in their
progress by the panic-stricken, stupefied, bewildered crowd; and the Northern Vandals laying
aside their arms, manning the engines, putting out the fire, and saving the city from total
destruction! Through the terrible day, all through the succeeding night, the smoke of its torment
went up to heaven. Strange, weird, the scenes of that Monday night,--the glimmering flames,
the clouds of smoke hanging like a funeral pall above the ruins, the crowd of woe-begone, houseless,
homeless creatures wandering through the streets:--

    "Such resting found the soles of unblest feet!"

VISIT OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.

Among the memorable events of the week was the visit of President Lincoln to the city of Richmond.
He had been tarrying at City Point, holding daily consultations with General Grant, visiting
the army and the iron-clads at Aiken's Landing,--thus avoiding the swarm of place-hunters that
darkened the doors of the executive mansion.

On Tuesday noon a tug-boat belonging to the navy was seen steaming up the James, regardless
of torpedoes and obstructions. A mile below the city, where the water becomes shoal, President
Lincoln, accompanied by Admiral Porter, Captain Adams of the navy, Captain Penrose of the army,
and Lieutenant Clemmens of the Signal Corps, put off from the tug in a launch manned by twelve
sailors, whose long, steady oar-strokes quickly carried the party to the landing-place,--a
square above Libby Prison.

There was no committee of reception, no guard of honor, no grand display of troops, no assembling
of an eager multitude to welcome him.

He entered the city unheralded; six sailors, armed with carbines, stepped upon the shore, followed
by the President, who held his little son by the hand, and Admiral Porter; the officers followed,
and six more sailors brought up the rear. The writer of this article was there upon the spot,
and, joining the party, became an observer of the memorable event.

There were forty or fifty freedmen, who had been sole possessors of themselves for twenty-four
hours, at work on the bank of the canal, securing some floating timber, under the direction
of a Lieutenant. Somehow they obtained the information that the man who was head and shoulders
taller than all others around him, with features large and irregular, with a mild eye and pleasant
countenance, was President Lincoln.

"God bless you, Sah!" said one, taking off his cap and bowing very low.

"Hurrah! hurrah! President Linkum hab come!" was the shout which rang through the street.

The Lieutenant found himself without a command. What cared those freedmen, fresh from the house
of bondage, for floating timber or military commands? Their deliverer had come,--he who, next
to the Lord Jesus, was their best friend! It was not an hurrah that they gave, but a wild,
jubilant cry of inexpressible joy.

They gathered round the President, ran ahead, hovered upon the flanks of the little company,
and hung like a dark cloud upon the rear. Men, women, and children joined the constantly increasing
throng. They came from all the by-streets, running in breathless haste, shouting and hallooing
and dancing with delight. The men threw up their hats, the women waved their bonnets and handkerchiefs,
clapped their hands, and sang, "Glory to God! glory! glory! glory!"--rendering all the praise
to God, who had heard their wailings in the past, their meanings for wives, husbands, children,
and friends sold out of their sight, had given them freedom, and, after long years of waiting,
had permitted them thus unexpectedly to behold the face of their great benefactor.

"I thank you, dear Jesus, that I behold President Linkum!" was the exclamation of a woman who
stood upon the threshold of her humble home, and with streaming eyes and clasped hands gave
thanks aloud to the Saviour of men.

Another, more demonstrative in her joy, was jumping and striking her hands with all her might,
crying,--"Bless de Lord! Bless de Lord! Bless de Lord!" as if there could be no end of her
thanksgiving.

The air rang with a tumultuous chorus of voices. The street became almost impassable on account
of the increasing multitude. Soldiers were summoned to clear the way. How strange the event!
The President of the United States--he who had been hated, despised, maligned above all other
men living, to whom the vilest epithets had been applied by the people of Richmond--was walking
their streets, receiving thanksgivings, blessings, and praises from thousands who hailed him
as the ally of the Messiah! How bitter the reflections of that moment to some who beheld him!--memory
running back, perhaps, to that day in May, 1861, when Jefferson Davis, their President, entered
the city,--the pageant of that hour, his speech, his promise to smite the smiter, to drench
the fields of Virginia with richer blood than that shed at Buena Vista! How that part of the
promise had been kept!--how their sons, brothers, and friends had fallen!--how all else predicted
had failed!--how the land had been filled with mourning!--how the State had become a desolation!--how
their property, their hoarded wealth, had disappeared! They had been invited to a gorgeous
banquet; the fruit was fair to the eye, of golden hue and beautiful; but it had turned to ashes.
They had been promised a place among the nations, a position of commanding influence and fame.
Cotton was the king of kings, and England, France, and the whole civilized world would bow
in humble submission to his Majesty. That was the promise; but now their king was dethroned,
their government overthrown, their President and his cabinet vagrants, driven from house and
home to be wanderers upon the earth. They had been promised affluence, Richmond was to be the
metropolis of the Confederacy, and Virginia the all-powerful State of the new nation. How terrible
the cheat! Their thousand-dollar bonds were not worth a penny. A million dollars would not
purchase a dinner. Their money was valueless, their slaves were freemen, the heart of their
city was eaten out. They had been cheated in everything. Those whom they had trusted had given
the unkindest cut of all,--adding arson and robbery to their other crimes. Thus had they fallen
from highest anticipation of bliss to deepest actual woe.

Abraham Lincoln was walking their streets; and, worst of all, that plain, honest-hearted man
was recognizing the "niggers" as human beings by returning their salutations! The walk was
long, and the President halted a moment to rest. "May de good Lord bless you, President Linkum!"
said an old negro, removing his hat, and bowing with tears of joy rolling down his cheeks.
The President removed his own hat, and bowed in silence; but it was a bow which upset the forms,
laws, customs, and ceremonies of centuries. It was a death-shock to chivalry, and a mortal
wound to caste. Recognize a nigger! Faugh! A woman in an adjoining house beheld it, and turned
from the scene in unspeakable disgust. There were men in the crowd who had daggers in their
eyes; but the chosen assassin was not there, the hour for the damning work had not come, and
that great-hearted man passed on to the executive mansion of the late Confederacy.

Want of space compels us to pass over other scenes,--the visit of the President to the State-House,--the
jubilant shouts of the crowd,--the rush of freedmen into the Capitol grounds, where, till the
appearance of their deliverer, they had never been permitted to enter,--the ride of the President
through the streets,--his visit to Libby Prison,--the distribution of bread to the destitute,--the
groups of heartbroken men amid the ruins, who beheld nought but ruins,--a ruined city, a ruined
State, a ruined Confederacy, a ruined people,--ruined in hopes and expectations,--ruined for
the past, the present, and the future,--without power, influence, or means of beginning life
anew,--deceived, subjugated, humiliated,--poverty-stricken in everything. All that they had
possessed was irretrievably lost, and they had nothing to show for it. All their heroism, valor,
courage, hardship, suffering, expenditure of treasure, and sacrifice of blood had availed them
nothing. There could be no comfort in their mourning, no alleviation to their sorrow.

Forgetting that Justice is the mightiest power of the universe, that Righteousness is eternal,
and that anything short of it is transitory, they planned a gorgeous edifice with Slavery for
its corner-stone; but suddenly, and in an hour, their superstructure and foundation, crumbled.
They grasped at dominion, and sank in perdition.

FOOTNOTES:

[I] I write from memory, not pretending to give the exact words uttered during the conversation.

DOWN!

(APRIL, 1965)

    Yard-Arm to yard-arm we lie
      Alongside the Ship of Hell;
    And still, through the sulphury sky,
    The terrible clang goes high,--
    Broadside and battle-cry,
      And the pirates' maddened yell!

    Our Captain's cold on the deck;
    Our brave Lieutenant's a wreck,--
      He lies in the hold there, hearing
    The storm of fight going on overhead,
    Tramp and thunder to wake the dead,
    The great guns jumping overhead,
      And the whole ship's company cheering!

    Four hours the Death-Fight has roared,
      (Gun-deck and berth-deck blood-wet!)
    Her mainmast's gone by the board,
    Down come topsail and jib!
    We're smashing her, rib by rib,
    And the pirate yells grow weak,--
      But the Black Flag flies there yet,
    The Death's Head grinning apeak!

    Long has she haunted the seas,
    Terror of sun and breeze;
    Her deck has echoed with groans;
      Her hold is a horrid den,
    Piled to the orlop with bones
      Of starved and of murdered men!
    They swarm 'mid her shrouds in hosts,
    The smoke is murky with ghosts!

    But to-day her cruise shall be short!
    She's bound to the Port she cleared from,
    She's nearing the Light she steered from,--
      Ah, the Horror sees her fate!
    Heeling heavy to port,
      She strikes, but all too late!
    Down with her cursed crew,
      Down with her damned freight,
    To the bottom of the Blue,
    Ten thousand fathom deep!
      With God's glad sun o'erhead,--
    That is the way to weep,
      So will we mourn our dead!

THE PLACE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN IN HISTORY. The thought of the individual was effaced; and men's
minds were drawn to the station which he filled, to his public career, to the principles he
represented, to his martyrdom. There was at first impatience at the escape of his murderer,
mixed with contempt for the wretch who was guilty of the crime; and there was relief in the
consideration, that one whose personal insignificance was in such a contrast with the greatness
of his crime had met with a sudden and ignoble death. No one stopped to remark on the personal
qualities of Abraham Lincoln, except to wonder that his gentleness of nature had not saved
him from the designs of assassins. It was thought then, and the event is still so recent it
is thought now, that the analysis and graphic portraiture of his personal character and habits
should be deferred to less excited times; as yet the attempt would wear the aspect of cruel
indifference or levity, inconsistent with the sanctity of the occasion. Men ask one another
only, Why has the President been struck down, and why do the people mourn? We think we pay
the best tribute to his memory and the most fitting respect to his name, if we ask after the
relation in which he stands to the history of his country and his fellow-man.

Before the end of 1865, it will have been two hundred and forty-six years since the first negro
slaves were landed in Virginia from a Dutch trading-vessel, two hundred and twenty-eight since
a Massachusetts vessel returned from the Bahamas with negro slaves for a part of its cargo,
two hundred and twenty years since men of Boston introduced them directly from Guinea. Slavery
in the United States had not its origin in British policy: it sprung up among Americans themselves,
who in that respect acquiesced in the customs and morals of the age. But at a later day the
importation of slaves was insisted upon by the government of the mother country, under the
influence of mercantile avarice, with the further purpose of weakening the rising Colonies,
and impeding the establishment among them of branches of industry that might compete with the
productions of England. Climate and the logical consequences of the principles of the Puritans
checked the increase of slaves in Massachusetts, from which it gradually disappeared without
the necessity of any special act of manumission; in Virginia, the country within the reach
of tide-water was crowded with negroes, and the marts were supplied by continuous importations,
which the Colony was not suffered to prohibit or restrain.

The middle of the eighteenth century was marked by a rising of opinion in favor of freedom.
The statesmen of Massachusetts read the great work of Montesquieu on the Spirit of Laws; and
in bearing their first very remarkable testimony against slavery, they simply adopted his words,
repeated without passion,--for they had no dread of the increase of slavery within their own
borders, and never doubted of its speedy and natural decay. The great men of Virginia, on the
contrary, were struck with terror as they contemplated its social condition; they drew their
lessons, not from France, not from abroad, but from themselves and the scenes around them;
and half in the hope of rescuing that ancient Commonwealth from the corrupting element of slavery,
and half in the agony of despair, they went in advance of all the world in their reprobation
of the slave-trade and of slavery, and of the dangerous condition of the white man as the master
of bondmen. In the years preceding the war of the Revolution, the Ancient Dominion rocked with
the strife of contending parties: the King with all his officers and many great slaveholders
on the one side, against a hardy people in the back country and the best of the slaveholders
themselves. On the side of liberty many were conspicuous,--among them Richard Henry Lee, George
Wythe, Jefferson, who from his youth was the pride of Virginia; but all were feeble in comparison
with the enthusiastic fervor and prophetic instincts of George Mason. They reasoned, that slavery
was inconsistent with Christianity, was in conflict with the rights of man; that it was a slow
poison, daily contaminating the minds and morals of their people; that, by reducing a part
of their own species to abject inferiority, they lost the idea of the dignity of man, which
the hand of Nature had implanted within them for great and useful purposes; that, by the habit
from infancy of trampling on the rights of human nature, every liberal sentiment was extinguished
or enfeebled; that every gentleman was born a petty tyrant, and by the practice of cruelty
and despotism became callous to the finer dictates of the soul; that in such an infernal school
were to be educated the future legislators and rulers of Virginia. And before the war broke
out, the House of Burgesses of Virginia was warned of the choice that lay before them: either
the Constitution must by degrees work itself clear by its own innate strength and the virtue
and resolution of the community, or the laws of impartial Providence would avenge on their
posterity the injury done to a class of unhappy men debased by their injustice.

At the opening of the war of the Revolution, the Narragansett country of Rhode Island, the
Southern part of Long Island, New York City and the counties on the Hudson, and East New Jersey
had in their population about as large a proportion of slaves as Missouri four years ago. In
all the Colonies collectively the black men were to the white men as five to twenty-one. The
British authorities unanimously held that the master lost his claim to his slave by the act
of rebellion. In Virginia a system of emancipation was inaugurated; and the emancipation of
slaves by success in arms Jefferson pronounced to be right. But the system of emancipation
took no large proportions: partly because the invaders in the beginning of the war were driven
from the Chesapeake; partly because the large slaveholders of South Carolina, on the subjugation
of the low country in that State, renewed their allegiance to the Crown; and partly because
British officers chose to ship slaves of rebels to the markets of the West Indies. Yet the
continued occupation of Rhode Island, Long Island, and New York City, and the exodus of slaves
with other refugees at the time of peace, facilitated the movements in Rhode Island and New
York for the abrogation of slavery. At the end of the war the proportion of free people to
slaves was greatly increased; and, whatever wilful blindness may assert, the free black had
the privileges of a citizen.

Here, then, was an opening for relieving the body politic from the great anomaly of bondage
in the midst of freedom. But though divine justice never slumbers, the opportunity was but
partially seized. The diminution of the number of laborers at the South revived the importation
of slaves. The first Congress had agreed not to tolerate that traffic; the Confederacy left
its encouragement or prohibition to the pleasure of each State; and the Constitution continued
that liberty for twenty years. At the same time slavery was excluded from the whole of the
territory of the United States. The vote of New Jersey only was wanting to have sustained the
proposition of Jefferson, by which it would have been excluded not only from all the territory
then in their possession, but from all that they might gain.

The jealousy of the Southern States of the power of the North may be traced through the annals
of Congress from the first, which assembled in 1774. The old notions of the independence and
sovereignty of each separate State, though the Constitution was framed for the express purpose
of modifying them, clung to life with tenacity. When John Adams was elected President, before
any overt act, before any other cause of alarm than his election, the Legislature of Virginia
took steps for an armed organization of the State, and old and long-cherished sentiments adverse
to Union were renewed. The continuance of the Union was in peril. It was then that the great
Virginia statesman, now perfectly satisfied with the amended Constitution, came to the rescue.
By the simple force of ideas, embodying in one system all the conquests of the eighteenth century
in behalf of human rights, the freedom of conscience, speech, and the press, he ruled the willing
minds of the people. The South, where his great strength lay with the poor whites, and where
he was known as the champion of human freedom, trusted in his zeal for individual liberty and
for the adjusted liberty of the States; the North heard from him sincere and consistent denunciations
of slavery, such as had never been surpassed, except by George Mason. The thought never crossed
the mind of Jefferson that the General Government had not proper powers of coercion. On taking
the office of President, his watchword was, "We are all Federalists, we are all Republicans";
and the two principles of universal freedom and equality, and the right of each State to regulate
its own internal domestic affairs, became not so much the doctrine of a party as the accepted
creed of the nation. In his administration of affairs, Jefferson did not suffer one power of
the General Government to be weakened. No one man did so much as he towards consolidating the
Union.

But the question of Slavery was not solved. The purchase of Louisiana increased the States
in which slaves were tolerated; the settlement of the Northwest strengthened the power of freedom;
but as yet there had been no fracture in public opinion. Missouri asked to be admitted to the
Union, and it was found, that, without any party organization, without formal preparation,
a majority of the House of Representatives desired to couple its admission with the condition
that it should emancipate its slaves. That slavery was evil was still the undivided opinion
of the nation; but it was perceived that the friends of freedom had missed the proper moment
for action,--that Congress had tolerated slavery in Missouri as a Territory, and were thus
inconsistent in claiming to suppress slavery in the State; and they escaped from the difficulty
by what was called a Compromise. It was agreed that for the future slavery should never be
carried to the north of the southern boundary of Missouri; and this was interpreted by the
South as the devoting of all the territory south of that line to the owners of slaves.

From that day Slavery became the foundation of a political party, under the guise of a zeal
for the rights of States. It began to be perceptible at the next Presidential election; but
Calhoun, who was willing to be considered a candidate for the Presidency, was still as decidedly
for the Union as John Quincy Adams or Webster. Walking one day with Seaton of the "Intelligencer"
on the banks of the Potomac, Seaton dissuaded him from being at that day a candidate for the
Presidency, giving as a reason, that, in case of success and reelection, he would go out of
the public service in the vigor of life. "I will, at the end of my second term, go into retirement
and write my memoirs," was Calhoun's answer: a proof that at that time Disunion had not crossed
his mind.

The younger Adams had been undoubtedly at the South the candidate of the Union party. The incipient
opposition to Union threw itself with the intensest heat into the opposition to Adams; and
Jackson, who was victorious through his own popularity, was elected by a vast majority. Jackson
was honest, patriotic, and brave: he refused his confidence to the oligarchical party, represented
by Calhoun and Macduffie; and after passionate struggles, which convulsed the country, he defied
their hostility, and told them to their faces, "The Union must be preserved."

The bitterness of disappointed ambition led to the formation and gradual enunciation of new
political opinions. In the strife about the practical effects of Nullification, the question
was raised by the Nullifiers, whether obedience to the laws of a State was a good plea for
resistance to the laws of the United States; and so, for the first time in our history, a political
party came to the principle, that primary allegiance was due to the State, a secondary one
only to the United States; and this view was taught in schools and colleges and popular meetings.
The second theory, that grew up with the first, was, that slavery was a divine institution,
best for the black man and best for the white.

At the election which followed the retirement of Jackson, the Democratic party stood by its
old tradition of the evil of slavery, and the hope that by the innate vigor of the respective
States it would gradually be thrown off; the opposite party likewise held to the same tradition,
in the belief that the progress of commerce and domestic industry would in due time quietly
remove what all sound political economy condemned. The new party, the party of State Sovereignty
and Slavery,--for the two heads sprung from one root,--had not power enough to prevent the
election of one who represented the policy of Jackson. But they were full of passionate ardor
and of restless activity; and in the next Presidential election they threw themselves upon
the Whig party, with which they joined hands. The Whig party was at that day strong enough
to have done without them; but the uncontrollable wish for success, which had been long delayed,
led to the cry of "Tippecanoe and Tyler too," and this meant a union of the interests of the
North with the interest of Slavery. Harrison had votes enough to elect him without one vote
from the Southern oligarchy; but the compact was made; Harrison was elected and died, and the
representative of the oligarchy, a man at heart false to the national flag, became President
for nearly four years.

His administration is marked by the annexation of Texas to the United States: a measure sure,
in the belief of Calhoun, to confirm the empire of Slavery,--sure, as others believed, to prevent
the foundation of an adventurous government, that, if left to independence, would have reopened
the slave-trade and subdued by force of arms all California and Mexico to the sway of Slavery.
The faith of the last proved the true one. Under the administration of Polk, California was
annexed, not to independent, slaveholding Texas, but to the Union. This constitutes the turning-point
in the series of events; the first emigrants to her borders formed a constitution excluding
slavery.

At the next election a change took place, profoundly affecting the Democratic party, and, as
a consequence, the country. Hitherto the position of the Northern Democracy had been that of
Jefferson, that slavery was altogether evil; and Cass, the Democratic candidate, still expressed
his prayer for the final doom of slavery. Against his election a third party was formed; and
Van Buren, a former Democratic President, who had been sustained by the South as well as by
the North, taking with him one half the Democracy of New York, consented to be the candidate
of that party. We judge not his act; but the consequences were sad. To the South his appearance
as a candidate on that basis had the aspect of treachery; at the North the Democratic party
lost its power to resist the arrogance of the South: for, in the first place, large numbers
of its best men had left its ranks; and next, those who remained behind were eager to clear
themselves of the charge of sectional narrowness; and those who had gone out and come back,
in their zeal to recover the favor of the South, went beyond all bounds in their professions
of repentance. The old compromise of Jefferson fell into disrepute; the Democratic party itself
was thrown into confusion; the power of any one of its distinguished men to resist the increasing
arrogance of the slaveholders was taken away; a word in public for what twenty years before
had been the creed of every one was followed by the ban of the majority of the party. So fell
one bulwark against slavery.

Still another bulwark against it was destined to fall away. The annexation of California brought
with it the question of the admission of California as a State of freemen. The only way to
have avoided convulsing the country was to have confined the discussion to the one question
of the admission of California. Unhappily, Clay, truly representing a State which halted in
its choice between freedom and slavery, proposed a combination of measures. Further, the representation
of the Free States had steadily increased from the origin of the Government; the admission
of California threatened, at last, to open the way for a corresponding disproportion in the
Senate. The country, remembering how Webster, on a great occasion, had greatly resisted the
heresy of Nullification, looked to him now to clear away the mists of artful misrepresentations
of the Constitution, and show that neither in that Constitution nor in the history of the country
at the time of its formation had there been any justification of the demand for such equality
of representation. But this time the great orator failed; the passionate desire for being President
led him to make a speech intended to conciliate the support of the South. In that he failed
miserably at the moment; a few days later, Calhoun, on his death-bed, avowed himself the adviser
of a secession of the whole body of the slaveholding States. Still blinded by ambition, Webster,
on a tour through New York, as a candidate, formally proposed the establishment of a party
representing the property of the country, crystallizing round the slaveholders, and including
the commercial and corporate industrial wealth of the North. The effect on his own advancement
was absolutely nothing. In due time, as a candidate, he fell stone dead; and it is to his credit
that he did so. The South knew that he was a Union man, and would not answer their purpose.
As he heard of the slight given by those whom he had courted, his large head fell on his breast,
his voice faltered, and big tears trickled down his cheeks. His cheerfulness never returned;
he languished and died; but the evil that lived after him was, that the great party to which
he had belonged was no more able to stem the rising fury of the South, and broke to pieces.

Thus, by untoward circumstances, the truth that could alone confirm the Union, and which heretofore
had been substantially supported by both the great traditional parties of the country, no longer
had a clear and commanding exponent in either of them. The result of the next election showed
that the old Whig party had lost all power over the public mind. The strife went on, and hope
centred in the supreme judicial tribunal of the land, to whose members a secure tenure of office
had been given, that they might be above all temptation of serving the time. The politicians
of the North were becoming alarmed by the issues which were forced upon them by those of the
South with whom they still wished to be friends; they longed to shift the responsibility of
the decision upon the Supreme Court. The Court was slow to be swerved. The case of Dred Scott
was before them; and the decision of the Court was embodied in an opinion which would have
produced no excitement. But the Court was entreated to give their decision another form. They
long resisted, and were long divided; but perseverance overcame them; and at last a most reluctant
majority, a bare majority, was won to enter the arena of politics, and attempt the suppression
of differences of opinion: for, said one of the judges, "the peace and harmony of the country
require the settlement of Constitutional principles of the highest importance,"--not knowing
that injustice overturns peace and harmony, and that a depraved judiciary portends civil war.

The man who took the Presidential chair in 1857 had no traditional party against him; he owed
his nomination to confidence in his moderation and supposed love of Union. He might have united
the whole North and secured a good part of the South. Constitutionally timid, on taking the
oath of office, he betrayed his own weakness, and foreshadowed the forthcoming decision of
the Supreme Court. Under the wing of the Executive, Chief-Justice Taney gave his famed disquisition.
The delivery of that opinion was an act of revolution. The truth of history was scorned; the
voice of passion was put forward as the rule of law; doctrines were laid down which, if they
are just, give a full sanction to the rebellion which ensued. The country was stung to the
quick by the reckless conduct of a body which it needed to trust, and which now was leading
the way to the overthrow of the Constitution and the dismemberment of the Republic. At the
same time, the President, in selecting the members of his cabinet, chose four of the seven
from among those who were prepared to sacrifice the country to the interests of Slavery. In
time of peace the finances were wilfully ill-administered, and in the midst of wealth and credit
the country was saved from bankruptcy only by the patriotism of the city of New York, against
the treacherous intention of the Secretary of the Treasury. Cannon and muskets and military
stores were sent in numbers where they could most surely fall into the hands of the coming
rebellion; troops of the United States were placed under disloyal officers and put out of the
way; the navy was scattered abroad. And then, that nothing might be wanting to increase the
agony of the country, an attempt to force the institution of Slavery on the people of Kansas,
that refused it, received the encouragement and aid of the President. The conspirators resolved
at the next Presidential election to compel the choice of a candidate of their own, or of one
against whom they could unite the South; and all the influence of the Administration, through
its patronage, was used to confine the election to that issue.

Virginia statesmen, more than ninety years ago, had foretold that each State Constitution must
work itself clear of the evil of slavery by its own innate vigor, or await the doom of impartial
Providence. Judgment slumbered no longer,--though wise men after the flesh were not chosen
as its messengers and avengers.

The position of Abraham Lincoln, on the day of his inauguration, was apparently one of helpless
debility. A bark canoe in a tempest on mid-ocean seemed hardly less safe. The vital tradition
of the country on Slavery no longer had its adequate expression in either of the two great
political parties, and the Supreme Court had uprooted the old landmarks and guides. The men
who had chosen him President did not constitute a consolidated party, and did not profess to
represent either of the historic parties which had been engaged in the struggles of three quarters
of a century. They were a heterogeneous body of men, of the most various political attachments
in former years, and on many questions of economy of the most discordant opinions. Scarcely
knowing each other, they did not form a numerical majority of the whole country, were in a
minority in each branch of Congress except from the wilful absence of members, and they could
not be sure of their own continuance as an organized body. They did not know their own position,
and were startled by the consequences of their success. The new President himself was, according
to his own description, a man of defective education, a lawyer by profession, knowing nothing
of administration beyond having been master of a very small post-office, knowing nothing of
war but as a captain of volunteers in a raid against an Indian chief, repeatedly a member of
the Illinois Legislature, once a member of Congress. He spoke with ease and clearness, but
not with eloquence. He wrote concisely and to the point, but was unskilled in the use of the
pen. He had no accurate knowledge of the public defences of the country, no exact conception
of its foreign relations, no comprehensive perception of his duties. The qualities of his nature
were not suited to hardy action. His temper was soft and gentle and yielding; reluctant to
refuse anything that presented itself to him as an act of kindness; loving to please and willing
to confide; not trained to confine acts of good-will within the stern limits of duty. He was
of the temperament called melancholic, scarcely concealed by an exterior of lightness of humor,--having
a deep and fixed seriousness, jesting lips, and wanness of heart. And this man was summoned
to stand up directly against a power with which Henry Clay had never directly grappled, before
which Webster at last had quailed, which no President had offended and yet successfully administered
the Government, to which each great political party had made concessions, to which in various
measures of compromise the country had repeatedly capitulated, and with which he must now venture
a struggle for the life or death of the nation.

The credit of the country had not fully recovered from the shock it had treacherously received
in the former administration. A part of the navy-yards were intrusted to incompetent agents
or enemies. The social spirit of the city of Washington was against him, and spies and enemies
abounded in the circles of fashion. Every executive department swarmed with men of treasonable
inclinations, so that it was uncertain where to rest for support. The army officers had been
trained in unsound political principles. The chief of staff of the highest of the general officers,
wearing the mask of loyalty, was a traitor at heart. The country was ungenerous towards the
negro, who in truth was not in the least to blame,--was impatient that such a strife should
have grown out of his condition, and wished that he were far away. On the side of prompt decision
the advantage was with the Rebels; the President sought how to avoid war without compromising
his duty; and the Rebels, who knew their own purpose, won incalculable advantages by the start
which they thus gained. The country stood aghast, and would not believe in the full extent
of the conspiracy to shatter it in pieces; men were uncertain if there would be a great uprising
of the people. The President and his cabinet were in the midst of an enemy's country and in
personal danger, and at one time their connections with the North and West were cut off; and
that very moment was chosen by the trusted chief of staff of the Lieutenant-General to go over
to the enemy.

Every one remembers how this state of suspense was terminated by the uprising of a people who
now showed strength and virtues which they were hardly conscious of possessing.

In some respects Abraham Lincoln was peculiarly fitted for his task, in connection with the
movement of his countrymen. He was of the Northwest; and this time it was the Mississippi River,
the needed outlet for the wealth of the Northwest, that did its part in asserting the necessity
of Union. He was one of the mass of the people; he represented them, because he was of them;
and the mass of the people, the class that lives and thrives by self-imposed labor, felt that
the work which was to be done was a work of their own: the assertion of equality against the
pride of oligarchy; of free labor against the lordship over slaves; of the great industrial
people against all the expiring aristocracies of which any remnants had tided down from the
Middle Age. He was of a religious turn of mind, without superstition; and the unbroken faith
of the mass was like his own. As he went along through his difficult journey, sounding his
way, he held fast by the hand of the people, and "tracked its footsteps with even feet." "His
pulse's beat twinned with their pulses." He committed faults; but the people were resolutely
generous, magnanimous, and forgiving; and he in his turn was willing to take instructions from
their wisdom.

The measure by which Abraham Lincoln takes his place, not in American history only, but in
universal history, is his Proclamation of January 1, 1863, emancipating all slaves within the
insurgent States. It was, indeed, a military necessity, and it decided the result of the war.
It took from the public enemy one or two millions of bondmen, and placed between one and two
hundred thousand brave and gallant troops in arms on the side of the Union. The death of President
Lincoln sets the seal to that Proclamation, which must be maintained. It cannot but be maintained.
It is the only rod that can safely carry off the thunderbolt. He came to it perhaps reluctantly;
he was brought to adopt it, as it were, against his will, but compelled by inevitable necessity.
He disclaimed all praise for the act, saying reverently, after it had succeeded, "The nation's
condition God alone can claim."

And what a futurity is opened before the country when its institutions become homogeneous!
From all the civilized world the nations will send hosts to share the wealth and glory of this
people. It will receive all good ideas from abroad; and its great principles of personal equality
and freedom--freedom of conscience and mind,--freedom of speech and action,--freedom of government
through ever-renewed common consent--will undulate through the world like the rays of light
and heat from the sun. With one wing touching the waters of the Atlantic and the other on the
Pacific, it will grow into a greatness of which the past has no parallel; and there can be
no spot in Europe or in Asia so remote or so secluded as to shut out its influence.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS.

The Refugee. By Herman Melville, Author of "Omoo," etc. Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Brothers,
12mo. pp. 286. $2.00.

Three Years in the Army of the Potomac. By Henry N. Blake, late Captain in the Eleventh Regiment
of Massachusetts Volunteers. Boston. Lee & Shepard. 16mo. pp. 319. $1.50.

Too Strange not to be True. A Tale. By Lady Georgiana Fullerton. Three Volumes in One. With
Illustrations. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. paper. pp. 274. In Two Volumes. Albany. J.
Munsell. 8vo. pp. xvi., 555; xvi., 544. $7.00.

Lord Oakburn's Daughters. $2.00.

Lyrical Recreations. By Samuel Ward. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. xvi., 271. $2.00.

Virginia, and Other Poems. By John Henry Vosburg. New York. James Miller. 16mo. pp. 180. $1.25.

High Life in Washington. A True Picture from Life of Real Persons and Characters. By Mrs. N.
P. Lasselle. Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 396. $2.00.

Trial of John Y. Beall, as a Spy and Guerrillero, by Military Commission. New York. D. Appleton
& Co. 8vo. paper, pp. 94. 50 cts.