The Letters of Robert Louis Stevenson - Volume 1

CHAPTER I - STUDENT DAYS AT EDINBURGH, TRAVELS AND EXCURSIONS,  1868-1873

Letter:  SPRING GROVE SCHOOL, 12TH NOVEMBER 1863.

MA CHERE MAMAN, - Jai recu votre lettre Aujourdhui et comme le jour  prochaine est mon jour
de naisance je vous ecrit ce lettre.  Ma  grande gatteaux est arrive il leve 12 livres et demi
le prix etait  17 shillings.  Sur la soiree de Monseigneur Faux il y etait  quelques belles
feux d'artifice.  Mais les polissons entrent dans  notre champ et nos feux d'artifice et handkerchiefs
disappeared  quickly, but we charged them out of the field.  Je suis presque  driven mad par
une bruit terrible tous les garcons kik up comme  grand un bruit qu'll est possible.  I hope
you will find your house  at Mentone nice.  I have been obliged to stop from writing by the
want of a pen, but now I have one, so I will continue.

My dear papa, you told me to tell you whenever I was miserable.  I  do not feel well, and I
wish to get home.

Do take me with you.

R. STEVENSON.

Letter:  2 SULYARDE TERRACE, TORQUAY, THURSDAY (APRIL 1866).

RESPECTED PATERNAL RELATIVE, - I write to make a request of the  most moderate nature.  Every
year I have cost you an enormous -  nay, elephantine - sum of money for drugs and physician's
fees, and  the most expensive time of the twelve months was March.

But this year the biting Oriental blasts, the howling tempests, and  the general ailments of
the human race have been successfully  braved by yours truly.

Does not this deserve remuneration?

I appeal to your charity, I appeal to your generosity, I appeal to  your justice, I appeal
to your accounts, I appeal, in fine, to your  purse.

My sense of generosity forbids the receipt of more - my sense of  justice forbids the receipt
of less - than half-a-crown. - Greeting  from, Sir, your most affectionate and needy son,

R. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

WICK, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1868.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - . . . Wick lies at the end or elbow of an open  triangular bay, hemmed on
either side by shores, either cliff or  steep earth-bank, of no great height.  The grey houses
of Pulteney  extend along the southerly shore almost to the cape; and it is  about half-way
down this shore - no, six-sevenths way down - that  the new breakwater extends athwart the bay.

Certainly Wick in itself possesses no beauty:  bare, grey shores,  grim grey houses, grim grey
sea; not even the gleam of red tiles;  not even the greenness of a tree.  The southerly heights,
when I  came here, were black with people, fishers waiting on wind and  night.  Now all the
S.Y.S. (Stornoway boats) have beaten out of the  bay, and the Wick men stay indoors or wrangle
on the quays with  dissatisfied fish-curers, knee-high in brine, mud, and herring  refuse.
The day when the boats put out to go home to the Hebrides,  the girl here told me there was
'a black wind'; and on going out, I  found the epithet as justifiable as it was picturesque.
A cold,  BLACK southerly wind, with occasional rising showers of rain; it  was a fine sight
to see the boats beat out a-teeth of it.

In Wick I have never heard any one greet his neighbour with the  usual 'Fine day' or 'Good
morning.'  Both come shaking their heads,  and both say, 'Breezy, breezy!'  And such is the
atrocious quality  of the climate, that the remark is almost invariably justified by  the fact.

The streets are full of the Highland fishers, lubberly, stupid,  inconceivably lazy and heavy
to move.  You bruise against them,  tumble over them, elbow them against the wall - all to
no purpose;  they will not budge; and you are forced to leave the pavement every  step.

To the south, however, is as fine a piece of coast scenery as I  ever saw.  Great black chasms,
huge black cliffs, rugged and over- hung gullies, natural arches, and deep green pools below
them,  almost too deep to let you see the gleam of sand among the darker  weed:  there are
deep caves too.  In one of these lives a tribe of  gipsies.  The men are ALWAYS drunk, simply
and truthfully always.   From morning to evening the great villainous-looking fellows are 
either sleeping off the last debauch, or hulking about the cove 'in  the horrors.'  The cave
is deep, high, and airy, and might be made  comfortable enough.  But they just live among heaped
boulders, damp  with continual droppings from above, with no more furniture than  two or three
tin pans, a truss of rotten straw, and a few ragged  cloaks.  In winter the surf bursts into
the mouth and often forces  them to abandon it.

An EMEUTE of disappointed fishers was feared, and two ships of war  are in the bay to render
assistance to the municipal authorities.   This is the ides; and, to all intents and purposes,
said ides are  passed.  Still there is a good deal of disturbance, many drunk men,  and a double
supply of police.  I saw them sent for by some people  and enter an inn, in a pretty good hurry:
what it was for I do not  know.

You would see by papa's letter about the carpenter who fell off the  staging:  I don't think
I was ever so much excited in my life.  The  man was back at his work, and I asked him how
he was; but he was a  Highlander, and - need I add it? - dickens a word could I  understand
of his answer.  What is still worse, I find the people  here-about - that is to say, the Highlanders,
not the northmen -  don't understand ME.

I have lost a shilling's worth of postage stamps, which has damped  my ardour for buying big
lots of 'em:  I'll buy them one at a time  as I want 'em for the future.

The Free Church minister and I got quite thick.  He left last night  about two in the morning,
when I went to turn in.  He gave me the  enclosed. - I remain your affectionate son,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

WICK, September 5, 1868.  MONDAY.

MY DEAR MAMMA, - This morning I got a delightful haul:  your letter  of the fourth (surely
mis-dated); Papa's of same day; Virgil's  BUCOLICS, very thankfully received; and Aikman's
ANNALS, a precious  and most acceptable donation, for which I tender my most ebullient  thanksgivings.
I almost forgot to drink my tea and eat mine egg.

It contains more detailed accounts than anything I ever saw, except  Wodrow, without being
so portentously tiresome and so desperately  overborne with footnotes, proclamations, acts
of Parliament, and  citations as that last history.

I have been reading a good deal of Herbert.  He's a clever and a  devout cove; but in places
awfully twaddley (if I may use the  word).  Oughtn't this to rejoice Papa's heart -

'Carve or discourse; do not a famine fear. Who carves is kind to two, who talks to all.'

You understand?  The 'fearing a famine' is applied to people  gulping down solid vivers without
a word, as if the ten lean kine  began to-morrow.

Do you remember condemning something of mine for being too  obtrusively didactic.  Listen to
Herbert -

'Is it not verse except enchanted groves And sudden arbours shadow coarse-spun lines? Must
purling streams refresh a lover's loves? MUST ALL BE VEILED, WHILE HE THAT READS DIVINES CATCHING
THE SENSE AT TWO REMOVES?'

You see, 'except' was used for 'unless' before 1630.

TUESDAY. - The riots were a hum.  No more has been heard; and one  of the war-steamers has
deserted in disgust.

The MOONSTONE is frightfully interesting:  isn't the detective  prime?  Don't say anything
about the plot; for I have only read on  to the end of Betteredge's narrative, so don't know
anything about  it yet.

I thought to have gone on to Thurso to-night, but the coach was  full; so I go to-morrow instead.

To-day I had a grouse:  great glorification.

There is a drunken brute in the house who disturbed my rest last  night.  He's a very respectable
man in general, but when on the  'spree' a most consummate fool.  When he came in he stood
on the  top of the stairs and preached in the dark with great solemnity and  no audience from
12 P.M. to half-past one.  At last I opened my  door.  'Are we to have no sleep at all for
that DRUNKEN BRUTE?'  I  said.  As I hoped, it had the desired effect.  'Drunken brute!' he
howled, in much indignation; then after a pause, in a voice of some  contrition, 'Well, if
I am a drunken brute, it's only once in the  twelvemonth!'  And that was the end of him; the
insult rankled in  his mind; and he retired to rest.  He is a fish-curer, a man over  fifty,
and pretty rich too.  SATURDAY, 10 A.M.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - The last two days have been dreadfully hard, and  I was so tired in the evenings
that I could not write.  In fact,  last night I went to sleep immediately after dinner, or
very nearly  so.  My hours have been 10-2 and 3-7 out in the lighter or the  small boat, in
a long, heavy roll from the nor'-east.  When the dog  was taken out, he got awfully ill; one
of the men, Geordie Grant by  name and surname, followed SHOOT with considerable ECLAT; but,
wonderful to relate! I kept well.  My hands are all skinned,  blistered, discoloured, and engrained
with tar, some of which  latter has established itself under my nails in a position of such
natural strength that it defies all my efforts to dislodge it.  The  worst work I had was when
David (MacDonald's eldest) and I took the  charge ourselves.  He remained in the lighter to
tighten or slacken  the guys as we raised the pole towards the perpendicular, with two  men.
I was with four men in the boat.  We dropped an anchor out a  good bit, then tied a cord to
the pole, took a turn round the  sternmost thwart with it, and pulled on the anchor line. 
As the  great, big, wet hawser came in it soaked you to the skin:  I was  the sternest (used,
by way of variety, for sternmost) of the lot,  and had to coil it - a work which involved,
from ITS being so stiff  and YOUR being busy pulling with all your might, no little trouble
and an extra ducking.  We got it up; and, just as we were going to  sing 'Victory!' one of
the guys slipped in, the pole tottered -  went over on its side again like a shot, and behold
the end of our  labour.

You see, I have been roughing it; and though some parts of the  letter may be neither very
comprehensible nor very interesting to  YOU, I think that perhaps it might amuse Willie Traquair,
who  delights in all such dirty jobs.

The first day, I forgot to mention, was like mid-winter for cold,  and rained incessantly so
hard that the livid white of our cold- pinched faces wore a sort of inflamed rash on the windward
side.

I am not a bit the worse of it, except fore-mentioned state of  hands, a slight crick in my
neck from the rain running down, and  general stiffness from pulling, hauling, and tugging
for dear life.

We have got double weights at the guys, and hope to get it up like  a shot.

What fun you three must be having!  I hope the cold don't disagree  with you. - I remain, my
dear mother, your affectionate son,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

PULTENEY, WICK, SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 1868.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - Another storm:  wind higher, rain thicker:  the  wind still rising as the
night closes in and the sea slowly rising  along with it; it looks like a three days' gale.

Last week has been a blank one:  always too much sea.

I enjoyed myself very much last night at the R.'s.  There was a  little dancing, much singing
and supper.

Are you not well that you do not write?  I haven't heard from you  for more than a fortnight.

The wind fell yesterday and rose again to-day; it is a dreadful  evening; but the wind is keeping
the sea down as yet.  Of course,  nothing more has been done to the poles; and I can't tell
when I  shall be able to leave, not for a fortnight yet, I fear, at the  earliest, for the
winds are persistent.  Where's Murra?  Is Cummie  struck dumb about the boots?  I wish you
would get somebody to  write an interesting letter and say how you are, for you're on the 
broad of your back I see.  There hath arrived an inroad of farmers  to-night; and I go to avoid
them to M- if he's disengaged, to the  R.'s if not.

SUNDAY (LATER). - Storm without:  wind and rain:  a confused mass  of wind-driven rain-squalls,
wind-ragged mist, foam, spray, and  great, grey waves.  Of this hereafter; in the meantime
let us  follow the due course of historic narrative.

Seven P.M. found me at Breadalbane Terrace, clad in spotless  blacks, white tie, shirt, et
caetera, and finished off below with a  pair of navvies' boots.  How true that the devil is
betrayed by his  feet!  A message to Cummy at last.  Why, O treacherous woman! were  my dress
boots withheld?

Dramatis personae:  pere R., amusing, long-winded, in many points  like papa; mere R., nice,
delicate, likes hymns, knew Aunt Margaret  ('t'ould man knew Uncle Alan); fille R., nommee
Sara (no h), rather  nice, lights up well, good voice, INTERESTED face; Miss L., nice  also,
washed out a little, and, I think, a trifle sentimental; fils  R., in a Leith office, smart,
full of happy epithet, amusing.  They  are very nice and very kind, asked me to come back -
'any night you  feel dull; and any night doesn't mean no night:  we'll be so glad  to see you.'
CEST LA MERE QUI PARLE.

I was back there again to-night.  There was hymn-singing, and  general religious controversy
till eight, after which talk was  secular.  Mrs. S. was deeply distressed about the boot business.
She consoled me by saying that many would be glad to have such feet  whatever shoes they had
on.  Unfortunately, fishers and seafaring  men are too facile to be compared with!  This looks
like enjoyment:   better speck than Anster.

I have done with frivolity.  This morning I was awakened by Mrs. S.  at the door.  'There's
a ship ashore at Shaltigoe!'  As my senses  slowly flooded, I heard the whistling and the roaring
of wind, and  the lashing of gust-blown and uncertain flaws of rain.  I got up,  dressed, and
went out.  The mizzled sky and rain blinded you.

C                  D
+-------------------
|
|
+-------------------
         \
         A\
           \
           B\

C D is the new pier.

A the schooner ashore.  B the salmon house.

She was a Norwegian:  coming in she saw our first gauge-pole,  standing at point E. Norse skipper
thought it was a sunk smack, and  dropped his anchor in full drift of sea:  chain broke:  schooner
came ashore.  Insured laden with wood:  skipper owner of vessel and  cargo bottom out.

I was in a great fright at first lest we should be liable; but it  seems that's all right.

Some of the waves were twenty feet high.  The spray rose eighty  feet at the new pier.  Some
wood has come ashore, and the roadway  seems carried away.  There is something fishy at the
far end where  the cross wall is building; but till we are able to get along, all  speculation
is vain.

I am so sleepy I am writing nonsense.

I stood a long while on the cope watching the sea below me; I hear  its dull, monotonous roar
at this moment below the shrieking of the  wind; and there came ever recurring to my mind the
verse I am so  fond of:-

'But yet the Lord that is on high Is more of might by far Than noise of many waters is Or great
sea-billows are.'

The thunder at the wall when it first struck - the rush along ever  growing higher - the great
jet of snow-white spray some forty feet  above you - and the 'noise of many waters,' the roar,
the hiss, the  'shrieking' among the shingle as it fell head over heels at your  feet.  I watched
if it threw the big stones at the wall; but it  never moved them.

MONDAY. - The end of the work displays gaps, cairns of ten ton  blocks, stones torn from their
places and turned right round.  The  damage above water is comparatively little:  what there
may be  below, ON NE SAIT PAS ENCORE.  The roadway is torn away, cross  heads, broken planks
tossed here and there, planks gnawn and  mumbled as if a starved bear had been trying to eat
them, planks  with spales lifted from them as if they had been dressed with a  rugged plane,
one pile swaying to and fro clear of the bottom, the  rails in one place sunk a foot at least.
This was not a great  storm, the waves were light and short.  Yet when we are standing at 
the office, I felt the ground beneath me QUAIL as a huge roller  thundered on the work at the
last year's cross wall.

How could NOSTER AMICUS Q. MAXIMUS appreciate a storm at Wick?  It  requires a little of the
artistic temperament, of which Mr. T. S.,  C.E., possesses some, whatever he may say.  I can't
look at it  practically however:  that will come, I suppose, like grey hair or  coffin nails.

Our pole is snapped:  a fortnight's work and the loss of the Norse  schooner all for nothing!
- except experience and dirty clothes. -  Your affectionate son,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. CHURCHILL BABINGTON

[SWANSTON COTTAGE, LOTHIANBURN, SUMMER 1871.]

MY DEAR MAUD, - If you have forgotten the hand-writing - as is like  enough - you will find
the name of a former correspondent (don't  know how to spell that word) at the end.  I have
begun to write to  you before now, but always stuck somehow, and left it to drown in a  drawerful
of like fiascos.  This time I am determined to carry  through, though I have nothing specially
to say.

We look fairly like summer this morning; the trees are blackening  out of their spring greens;
the warmer suns have melted the  hoarfrost of daisies of the paddock; and the blackbird, I
fear,  already beginning to 'stint his pipe of mellower days' - which is  very apposite (I
can't spell anything to-day - ONE p or TWO?) and  pretty.  All the same, we have been having
shocking weather - cold  winds and grey skies.

I have been reading heaps of nice books; but I can't go back so  far.  I am reading Clarendon's
HIST. REBELL. at present, with which  I am more pleased than I expected, which is saying a
good deal.  It  is a pet idea of mine that one gets more real truth out of one  avowed partisan
than out of a dozen of your sham impartialists -  wolves in sheep's clothing - simpering honesty
as they suppress  documents.  After all, what one wants to know is not what people  did, but
why they did it - or rather, why they THOUGHT they did it;  and to learn that, you should go
to the men themselves.  Their very  falsehood is often more than another man's truth.

I have possessed myself of Mrs. Hutchinson, which, of course, I  admire, etc.  But is there
not an irritating deliberation and  correctness about her and everybody connected with her?
If she  would only write bad grammar, or forget to finish a sentence, or do  something or other
that looks fallible, it would be a relief.  I  sometimes wish the old Colonel had got drunk
and beaten her, in the  bitterness of my spirit.  I know I felt a weight taken off my heart
when I heard he was extravagant.  It is quite possible to be too  good for this evil world;
and unquestionably, Mrs. Hutchinson was.   The way in which she talks of herself makes one's
blood run cold.   There - I am glad to have got that out - but don't say it to  anybody - seal
of secrecy.

Please tell Mr. Babington that I have never forgotten one of his  drawings - a Rubens, I think
- a woman holding up a model ship.   That woman had more life in her than ninety per cent.
of the lame  humans that you see crippling about this earth.

By the way, that is a feature in art which seems to have come in  with the Italians.  Your
old Greek statues have scarce enough  vitality in them to keep their monstrous bodies fresh
withal.  A  shrewd country attorney, in a turned white neckcloth and rusty  blacks, would just
take one of these Agamemnons and Ajaxes quietly  by his beautiful, strong arm, trot the unresisting
statue down a  little gallery of legal shams, and turn the poor fellow out at the  other end,
'naked, as from the earth he came.'  There is more  latent life, more of the coiled spring
in the sleeping dog, about a  recumbent figure of Michael Angelo's than about the most excited
of  Greek statues.  The very marble seems to wrinkle with a wild energy  that we never feel
except in dreams.

I think this letter has turned into a sermon, but I had nothing  interesting to talk about.

I do wish you and Mr. Babington would think better of it and come  north this summer.  We should
be so glad to see you both.  DO  reconsider it. - Believe me, my dear Maud, ever your most
affectionate cousin,

LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO ALISON CUNNINGHAM

1871?

MY DEAR CUMMY, - I was greatly pleased by your letter in many ways.   Of course, I was glad
to hear from you; you know, you and I have so  many old stories between us, that even if there
was nothing else,  even if there was not a very sincere respect and affection, we  should always
be glad to pass a nod.  I say 'even if there was  not.'  But you know right well there is.
Do not suppose that I  shall ever forget those long, bitter nights, when I coughed and  coughed
and was so unhappy, and you were so patient and loving with  a poor, sick child.  Indeed, Cummy,
I wish I might become a man  worth talking of, if it were only that you should not have thrown
away your pains.

Happily, it is not the result of our acts that makes them brave and  noble, but the acts themselves
and the unselfish love that moved us  to do them.  'Inasmuch as you have done it unto one of
the least of  these.'  My dear old nurse, and you know there is nothing a man can  say nearer
his heart except his mother or his wife - my dear old  nurse, God will make good to you all
the good that you have done,  and mercifully forgive you all the evil.  And next time when
the  spring comes round, and everything is beginning once again, if you  should happen to think
that you might have had a child of your own,  and that it was hard you should have spent so
many years taking  care of some one else's prodigal, just you think this - you have  been for
a great deal in my life; you have made much that there is  in me, just as surely as if you
had conceived me; and there are  sons who are more ungrateful to their own mothers than I am
to you.   For I am not ungrateful, my dear Cummy, and it is with a very  sincere emotion that
I write myself your little boy,

Louis.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

DUNBLANE, FRIDAY, 5TH MARCH 1872.

MY DEAR BAXTER, - By the date you may perhaps understand the  purport of my letter without
any words wasted about the matter.  I  cannot walk with you to-morrow, and you must not expect
me.  I came  yesterday afternoon to Bridge of Allan, and have been very happy  ever since,
as every place is sanctified by the eighth sense,  Memory.  I walked up here this morning (three
miles, TU-DIEU! a  good stretch for me), and passed one of my favourite places in the  world,
and one that I very much affect in spirit when the body is  tied down and brought immovably
to anchor on a sickbed.  It is a  meadow and bank on a corner on the river, and is connected
in my  mind inseparably with Virgil's ECLOGUES.  HIC CORULIS MISTOS INTER  CONSEDIMUS ULMOS,
or something very like that, the passage begins  (only I know my short-winded Latinity must
have come to grief over  even this much of quotation); and here, to a wish, is just such a
cavern as Menalcas might shelter himself withal from the bright  noon, and, with his lips curled
backward, pipe himself blue in the  face, while MESSIEURS LES ARCADIENS would roll out those
cloying  hexameters that sing themselves in one's mouth to such a curious  lifting chant.

In such weather one has the bird's need to whistle; and I, who am  specially incompetent in
this art, must content myself by  chattering away to you on this bit of paper.  All the way
along I  was thanking God that he had made me and the birds and everything  just as they are
and not otherwise; for although there was no sun,  the air was so thrilled with robins and
blackbirds that it made the  heart tremble with joy, and the leaves are far enough forward
on  the underwood to give a fine promise for the future.  Even myself,  as I say, I would not
have had changed in one IOTA this forenoon,  in spite of all my idleness and Guthrie's lost
paper, which is ever  present with me - a horrible phantom.

No one can be alone at home or in a quite new place.  Memory and  you must go hand in hand
with (at least) decent weather if you wish  to cook up a proper dish of solitude.  It is in
these little  flights of mine that I get more pleasure than in anything else.   Now, at present,
I am supremely uneasy and restless - almost to the  extent of pain; but O! how I enjoy it,
and how I SHALL enjoy it  afterwards (please God), if I get years enough allotted to me for
the thing to ripen in.  When I am a very old and very respectable  citizen with white hair
and bland manners and a gold watch, I shall  hear three crows cawing in my heart, as I heard
them this morning:   I vote for old age and eighty years of retrospect.  Yet, after all,  I
dare say, a short shrift and a nice green grave are about as  desirable.

Poor devil! how I am wearying you!  Cheer up.  Two pages more, and  my letter reaches its term,
for I have no more paper.  What  delightful things inns and waiters and bagmen are!  If we
didn't  travel now and then, we should forget what the feeling of life is.   The very cushion
of a railway carriage - 'the things restorative to  the touch.'  I can't write, confound it!
That's because I am so  tired with my walk.  Believe me, ever your affectionate friend,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

DUNBLANE, TUESDAY, 9TH APRIL 1872.

MY DEAR BAXTER, - I don't know what you mean.  I know nothing about  the Standing Committee
of the Spec., did not know that such a body  existed, and even if it doth exist, must sadly
repudiate all  association with such 'goodly fellowship.'  I am a 'Rural  Voluptuary' at present.
THAT is what is the matter with me.  The  Spec. may go whistle.  As for 'C. Baxter, Esq.,'
who is he?  'One  Baxter, or Bagster, a secretary,' I say to mine acquaintance, 'is  at present
disquieting my leisure with certain illegal,  uncharitable, unchristian, and unconstitutional
documents called  BUSINESS LETTERS:  THE AFFAIR IS IN THE HANDS OF THE POLICE.'  Do  you hear
THAT, you evildoer?  Sending business letters is surely a  far more hateful and slimy degree
of wickedness than sending  threatening letters; the man who throws grenades and torpedoes
is  less malicious; the Devil in red-hot hell rubs his hands with glee  as he reckons up the
number that go forth spreading pain and  anxiety with each delivery of the post.

I have been walking to-day by a colonnade of beeches along the  brawling Allan.  My character
for sanity is quite gone, seeing that  I cheered my lonely way with the following, in a triumphant
chaunt:   'Thank God for the grass, and the fir-trees, and the crows, and the  sheep, and the
sunshine, and the shadows of the fir-trees.'  I hold  that he is a poor mean devil who can
walk alone, in such a place  and in such weather, and doesn't set up his lungs and cry back
to  the birds and the river.  Follow, follow, follow me.  Come hither,  come hither, come hither
- here shall you see - no enemy - except a  very slight remnant of winter and its rough weather.
My bedroom,  when I awoke this morning, was full of bird-songs, which is the  greatest pleasure
in life.  Come hither, come hither, come hither,  and when you come bring the third part of
the EARTHLY PARADISE; you  can get it for me in Elliot's for two and tenpence (2s. 10d.)  (BUSINESS
HABITS).  Also bring an ounce of honeydew from Wilson's.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

BRUSSELS, THURSDAY, 25TH JULY 1872.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - I am here at last, sitting in my room, without  coat or waistcoat, and with
both window and door open, and yet  perspiring like a terra-cotta jug or a Gruyere cheese.

We had a very good passage, which we certainly deserved, in  compensation for having to sleep
on cabin floor, and finding  absolutely nothing fit for human food in the whole filthy  embarkation.
We made up for lost time by sleeping on deck a good  part of the forenoon.  When I woke, Simpson
was still sleeping the  sleep of the just, on a coil of ropes and (as appeared afterwards)
his own hat; so I got a bottle of Bass and a pipe and laid hold of  an old Frenchman of somewhat
filthy aspect (FIAT EXPERIMENTUM IN  CORPORE VILI) to try my French upon.  I made very heavy
weather of  it.  The Frenchman had a very pretty young wife; but my French  always deserted
me entirely when I had to answer her, and so she  soon drew away and left me to her lord, who
talked of French  politics, Africa, and domestic economy with great vivacity.  From  Ostend
a smoking-hot journey to Brussels.  At Brussels we went off  after dinner to the Parc.  If
any person wants to be happy, I  should advise the Parc.  You sit drinking iced drinks and
smoking  penny cigars under great old trees.  The band place, covered walks,  etc., are all
lit up.  And you can't fancy how beautiful was the  contrast of the great masses of lamplit
foliage and the dark  sapphire night sky with just one blue star set overhead in the  middle
of the largest patch.  In the dark walks, too, there are  crowds of people whose faces you
cannot see, and here and there a  colossal white statue at the corner of an alley that gives
the  place a nice, ARTIFICIAL, eighteenth century sentiment.  There was  a good deal of summer
lightning blinking overhead, and the black  avenues and white statues leapt out every minute
into short-lived  distinctness.

I get up to add one thing more.  There is in the hotel a boy in  whom I take the deepest interest.
I cannot tell you his age, but  the very first time I saw him (when I was at dinner yesterday)
I  was very much struck with his appearance.  There is something very  leonine in his face,
with a dash of the negro especially, if I  remember aright, in the mouth.  He has a great quantity
of dark  hair, curling in great rolls, not in little corkscrews, and a pair  of large, dark,
and very steady, bold, bright eyes.  His manners  are those of a prince.  I felt like an overgrown
ploughboy beside  him.  He speaks English perfectly, but with, I think, sufficient  foreign
accent to stamp him as a Russian, especially when his  manners are taken into account.  I don't
think I ever saw any one  who looked like a hero before.  After breakfast this morning I was
talking to him in the court, when he mentioned casually that he had  caught a snake in the
Riesengebirge.  'I have it here,' he said;  'would you like to see it?'  I said yes; and putting
his hand into  his breast-pocket, he drew forth not a dried serpent skin, but the  head and
neck of the reptile writhing and shooting out its horrible  tongue in my face.  You may conceive
what a fright I got.  I send  off this single sheet just now in order to let you know I am
safe  across; but you must not expect letters often.

R. L. STEVENSON.

P.S. - The snake was about a yard long, but harmless, and now, he  says, quite tame.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

HOTEL LANDSBERG, FRANKFURT, MONDAY, 29TH JULY 1872.

... LAST night I met with rather an amusing adventurette.  Seeing a  church door open, I went
in, and was led by most importunate  finger-bills up a long stair to the top of the tower.
The father  smoking at the door, the mother and the three daughters received me  as if I was
a friend of the family and had come in for an evening  visit.  The youngest daughter (about
thirteen, I suppose, and a  pretty little girl) had been learning English at the school, and
was anxious to play it off upon a real, veritable Englander; so we  had a long talk, and I
was shown photographs, etc., Marie and I  talking, and the others looking on with evident delight
at having  such a linguist in the family.  As all my remarks were duly  translated and communicated
to the rest, it was quite a good German  lesson.  There was only one contretemps during the
whole interview  - the arrival of another visitor, in the shape (surely) the last of  God's
creatures, a wood-worm of the most unnatural and hideous  appearance, with one great striped
horn sticking out of his nose  like a boltsprit.  If there are many wood-worms in Germany,
I shall  come home.  The most courageous men in the world must be  entomologists.  I had rather
be a lion-tamer.

To-day I got rather a curiosity - LIEDER UND BALLADEN VON ROBERT  BURNS, translated by one
Silbergleit, and not so ill done either.   Armed with which, I had a swim in the Main, and
then bread and  cheese and Bavarian beer in a sort of cafe, or at least the German  substitute
for a cafe; but what a falling off after the heavenly  forenoons in Brussels!

I have bought a meerschaum out of local sentiment, and am now very  low and nervous about the
bargain, having paid dearer than I should  in England, and got a worse article, if I can form
a judgment.

Do write some more, somebody.  To-morrow I expect I shall go into  lodgings, as this hotel
work makes the money disappear like butter  in a furnace. - Meanwhile believe me, ever your
affectionate son,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

HOTEL LANDSBERG, THURSDAY, 1ST AUGUST 1872.

... YESTERDAY I walked to Eckenheim, a village a little way out of  Frankfurt, and turned into
the alehouse.  In the room, which was  just such as it would have been in Scotland, were the
landlady, two  neighbours, and an old peasant eating raw sausage at the far end.   I soon got
into conversation; and was astonished when the landlady,  having asked whether I were an Englishman,
and received an answer  in the affirmative, proceeded to inquire further whether I were not
also a Scotchman.  It turned out that a Scotch doctor - a professor  - a poet - who wrote books
- GROSS WIE DAS - had come nearly every  day out of Frankfurt to the ECKENHEIMER WIRTHSCHAFT,
and had left  behind him a most savoury memory in the hearts of all its  customers.  One man
ran out to find his name for me, and returned  with the news that it was COBIE (Scobie, I suspect);
and during his  absence the rest were pouring into my ears the fame and  acquirements of my
countryman.  He was, in some undecipherable  manner, connected with the Queen of England and
one of the  Princesses.  He had been in Turkey, and had there married a wife of  immense wealth.
They could find apparently no measure adequate to  express the size of his books.  In one way
or another, he had  amassed a princely fortune, and had apparently only one sorrow, his  daughter
to wit, who had absconded into a KLOSTER, with a  considerable slice of the mother's GELD.
I told them we had no  klosters in Scotland, with a certain feeling of superiority.  No  more
had they, I was told - 'HIER IST UNSER KLOSTER!' and the  speaker motioned with both arms round
the taproom.  Although the  first torrent was exhausted, yet the Doctor came up again in all
sorts of ways, and with or without occasion, throughout the whole  interview; as, for example,
when one man, taking his pipe out of  his mouth and shaking his head, remarked APROPOS of nothing
and  with almost defiant conviction, 'ER WAR EIN FEINER MANN, DER HERR  DOCTOR,' and was answered
by another with 'YAW, YAW, UND TRANK  IMMER ROTHEN WEIN.'

Setting aside the Doctor, who had evidently turned the brains of  the entire village, they
were intelligent people.  One thing in  particular struck me, their honesty in admitting that
here they  spoke bad German, and advising me to go to Coburg or Leipsic for  German. - 'SIE
SPRECHEN DA REIN' (clean), said one; and they all  nodded their heads together like as many
mandarins, and repeated  REIN, SO REIN in chorus.

Of course we got upon Scotland.  The hostess said, 'DIE  SCHOTTLANDER TRINKEN GERN SCHNAPPS,'
which may be freely  translated, 'Scotchmen are horrid fond of whisky.'  It was  impossible,
of course, to combat such a truism; and so I proceeded  to explain the construction of toddy,
interrupted by a cry of  horror when I mentioned the HOT water; and thence, as I find is  always
the case, to the most ghastly romancing about Scottish  scenery and manners, the Highland dress,
and everything national or  local that I could lay my hands upon.  Now that I have got my 
German Burns, I lean a good deal upon him for opening a  conversation, and read a few translations
to every yawning audience  that I can gather.  I am grown most insufferably national, you see.
I fancy it is a punishment for my want of it at ordinary times.   Now, what do you think, there
was a waiter in this very hotel, but,  alas! he is now gone, who sang (from morning to night,
as my  informant said with a shrug at the recollection) what but 'S IST  LANGE HER, the German
version of Auld Lang Syne; so you see,  madame, the finest lyric ever written will make its
way out of  whatsoever corner of patois it found its birth in.

'MEITZ HERZ IST IM HOCHLAND, MEAN HERZ IST NICHT HIER, MEIN HERZ IST IM HOCHLAND IM GRUNEN
REVIER. IM GRUNEN REVIERE ZU JAGEN DAS REH; MEIN HERZ IST IM HOCHLAND, WO IMMER ICH GEH.'

I don't think I need translate that for you.

There is one thing that burthens me a good deal in my patriotic  garrulage, and that is the
black ignorance in which I grope about  everything, as, for example, when I gave yesterday
a full and, I  fancy, a startlingly incorrect account of Scotch education to a  very stolid
German on a garden bench:  he sat and perspired under  it, however with much composure.  I
am generally glad enough to  fall back again, after these political interludes, upon Burns,
toddy, and the Highlands.

I go every night to the theatre, except when there is no opera.  I  cannot stand a play yet;
but I am already very much improved, and  can understand a good deal of what goes on.

FRIDAY, AUGUST 2, 1872. - In the evening, at the theatre, I had a  great laugh.  Lord Allcash
in FRA DIAVOLO, with his white hat, red  guide-books, and bad German, was the PIECE-DE-RESISTANCE
from a  humorous point of view; and I had the satisfaction of knowing that  in my own small
way I could minister the same amusement whenever I  chose to open my mouth.

I am just going off to do some German with Simpson. - Your  affectionate son,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

FRANKFURT, ROSENGASSE 13, AUGUST 4, 1872.

MY DEAR FATHER, - You will perceive by the head of this page that  we have at last got into
lodgings, and powerfully mean ones too.   If I were to call the street anything but SHADY,
I should be  boasting.  The people sit at their doors in shirt-sleeves, smoking  as they do
in Seven Dials of a Sunday.

Last night we went to bed about ten, for the first time  HOUSEHOLDERS in Germany - real Teutons,
with no deception, spring,  or false bottom.  About half-past one there began such a  trumpeting,
shouting, pealing of bells, and scurrying hither and  thither of feet as woke every person
in Frankfurt out of their  first sleep with a vague sort of apprehension that the last day
was  at hand.  The whole street was alive, and we could hear people  talking in their rooms,
or crying to passers-by from their windows,  all around us.  At last I made out what a man
was saying in the  next room.  It was a fire in Sachsenhausen, he said (Sachsenhausen  is the
suburb on the other side of the Main), and he wound up with  one of the most tremendous falsehoods
on record, 'HIER ALLES RUHT -  here all is still.'  If it can be said to be still in an engine
factory, or in the stomach of a volcano when it is meditating an  eruption, he might have been
justified in what he said, but not  otherwise.  The tumult continued unabated for near an hour;
but as  one grew used to it, it gradually resolved itself into three bells,  answering each
other at short intervals across the town, a man  shouting, at ever shorter intervals and with
superhuman energy,  'FEUER, - IM SACHSENHAUSEN, and the almost continuous winding of  all manner
of bugles and trumpets, sometimes in stirring  flourishes, and sometimes in mere tuneless wails.
Occasionally  there was another rush of feet past the window, and once there was  a mighty
drumming, down between us and the river, as though the  soldiery were turning out to keep the
peace.  This was all we had  of the fire, except a great cloud, all flushed red with the glare,
above the roofs on the other side of the Gasse; but it was quite  enough to put me entirely
off my sleep and make me keenly alive to  three or four gentlemen who were strolling leisurely
about my  person, and every here and there leaving me somewhat as a keepsake.  . . . However,
everything has its compensation, and when day came  at last, and the sparrows awoke with trills
and CAROL-ETS, the dawn  seemed to fall on me like a sleeping draught.  I went to the window
and saw the sparrows about the eaves, and a great troop of doves go  strolling up the paven
Gasse, seeking what they may devour.  And so  to sleep, despite fleas and fire-alarms and clocks
chiming the  hours out of neighbouring houses at all sorts of odd times and with  the most
charming want of unanimity.

We have got settled down in Frankfurt, and like the place very  much.  Simpson and I seem to
get on very well together.  We suit  each other capitally; and it is an awful joke to be living
(two  would-be advocates, and one a baronet) in this supremely mean  abode.

The abode is, however, a great improvement on the hotel, and I  think we shall grow quite fond
of it. - Ever your affectionate son,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

13 ROSENGASSE, FRANKFURT, TUESDAY MORNING, AUGUST 1872.

. . . Last night I was at the theatre and heard DIE JUDIN (LA  JUIVE), and was thereby terribly
excited.  At last, in the middle  of the fifth act, which was perfectly beastly, I had to slope.
I  could stand even seeing the cauldron with the sham fire beneath,  and the two hateful executioners
in red; but when at last the  girl's courage breaks down, and, grasping her father's arm, she
cries out - O so shudderfully! - I thought it high time to be out  of that GALERE, and so I
do not know yet whether it ends well or  ill; but if I ever afterwards find that they do carry
things to the  extremity, I shall think more meanly of my species.  It was raining  and cold
outside, so I went into a BIERHALLE, and sat and brooded  over a SCHNITT (half-glass) for nearly
an hour.  An opera is far  more REAL than real life to me.  It seems as if stage illusion,
and  particularly this hardest to swallow and most conventional illusion  of them all - an
opera - would never stale upon me.  I wish that  life was an opera.  I should like to LIVE
in one; but I don't know  in what quarter of the globe I shall find a society so constituted.
Besides, it would soon pall:  imagine asking for three-kreuzer  cigars in recitative, or giving
the washerwoman the inventory of  your dirty clothes in a sustained and FLOURISHOUS aria.

I am in a right good mood this morning to sit here and write to  you; but not to give you news.
There is a great stir of life, in a  quiet, almost country fashion, all about us here.  Some
one is  hammering a beef-steak in the REZ-DE-CHAUSSEE:  there is a great  clink of pitchers
and noise of the pump-handle at the public well  in the little square-kin round the corner.
The children, all  seemingly within a month, and certainly none above five, that  always go
halting and stumbling up and down the roadway, are  ordinarily very quiet, and sit sedately
puddling in the gutter,  trying, I suppose, poor little devils! to understand their  MUTTERSPRACHE;
but they, too, make themselves heard from time to  time in little incomprehensible antiphonies,
about the drift that  comes down to them by their rivers from the strange lands higher up 
the Gasse.  Above all, there is here such a twittering of canaries  (I can see twelve out of
our window), and such continual visitation  of grey doves and big-nosed sparrows, as make our
little bye-street  into a perfect aviary.

I look across the Gasse at our opposite neighbour, as he dandles  his baby about, and occasionally
takes a spoonful or two of some  pale slimy nastiness that looks like DEAD PORRIDGE, if you
can take  the conception.  These two are his only occupations.  All day long  you can hear
him singing over the brat when he is not eating; or  see him eating when he is not keeping
baby.  Besides which, there  comes into his house a continual round of visitors that puts me
in  mind of the luncheon hour at home.  As he has thus no ostensible  avocation, we have named
him 'the W.S.' to give a flavour of  respectability to the street.

Enough of the Gasse.  The weather is here much colder.  It rained a  good deal yesterday; and
though it is fair and sunshiny again to- day, and we can still sit, of course, with our windows
open, yet  there is no more excuse for the siesta; and the bathe in the river,  except for
cleanliness, is no longer a necessity of life.  The Main  is very swift.  In one part of the
baths it is next door to  impossible to swim against it, and I suspect that, out in the open,
it would be quite impossible. - Adieu, my dear mother, and believe  me, ever your affectionate son,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

(RENTIER).

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

17 HERIOT ROW, EDINBURGH, SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1873.

MY DEAR BAXTER, - The thunderbolt has fallen with a vengeance now.   On Friday night after
leaving you, in the course of conversation,  my father put me one or two questions as to beliefs,
which I  candidly answered.  I really hate all lying so much now - a new  found honesty that
has somehow come out of my late illness - that I  could not so much as hesitate at the time;
but if I had foreseen  the real hell of everything since, I think I should have lied, as I
have done so often before.  I so far thought of my father, but I  had forgotten my mother.
And now! they are both ill, both silent,  both as down in the mouth as if - I can find no simile.
You may  fancy how happy it is for me.  If it were not too late, I think I  could almost find
it in my heart to retract, but it is too late;  and again, am I to live my whole life as one
falsehood?  Of course,  it is rougher than hell upon my father, but can I help it?  They  don't
see either that my game is not the light-hearted scoffer;  that I am not (as they call me)
a careless infidel.  I believe as  much as they do, only generally in the inverse ratio:  I
am, I  think, as honest as they can be in what I hold.  I have not come  hastily to my views.
I reserve (as I told them) many points until  I acquire fuller information, and do not think
I am thus justly to  be called 'horrible atheist.'

Now, what is to take place?  What a curse I am to my parents!  O  Lord, what a pleasant thing
it is to have just DAMNED the happiness  of (probably) the only two people who care a damn
about you in the  world.

What is my life to be at this rate?  What, you rascal?  Answer - I  have a pistol at your throat.
If all that I hold true and most  desire to spread is to be such death, and a worse than death,
in  the eyes of my father and mother, what the DEVIL am I to do?

Here is a good heavy cross with a vengeance, and all rough with  rusty nails that tear your
fingers, only it is not I that have to  carry it alone; I hold the light end, but the heavy
burden falls on  these two.

Don't - I don't know what I was going to say.  I am an abject  idiot, which, all things considered,
is not remarkable. - Ever your  affectionate and horrible atheist,

R. L. STEVENSON.

CHAPTER II - STUDENT DAYS - ORDERED SOUTH, SEPTEMBER 1873-JULY 1875

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

COCKFIELD RECTORY, SUDBURY, SUFFOLK, TUESDAY, JULY 28, 1873.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - I am too happy to be much of a correspondent.   Yesterday we were away to
Melford and Lavenham, both exceptionally  placid, beautiful old English towns.  Melford scattered
all round a  big green, with an Elizabethan Hall and Park, great screens of  trees that seem
twice as high as trees should seem, and everything  else like what ought to be in a novel,
and what one never expects  to see in reality, made me cry out how good we were to live in
Scotland, for the many hundredth time.  I cannot get over my  astonishment - indeed, it increases
every day - at the hopeless  gulf that there is between England and Scotland, and English and
Scotch.  Nothing is the same; and I feel as strange and outlandish  here as I do in France
or Germany.  Everything by the wayside, in  the houses, or about the people, strikes me with
an unexpected  unfamiliarity:  I walk among surprises, for just where you think  you have them,
something wrong turns up.

I got a little Law read yesterday, and some German this morning,  but on the whole there are
too many amusements going for much work;  as for correspondence, I have neither heart nor time
for it to-day.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

17 HERIOT ROW, EDINBURGH, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1873.

I HAVE been to-day a very long walk with my father through some of  the most beautiful ways
hereabouts; the day was cold with an iron,  windy sky, and only glorified now and then with
autumn sunlight.   For it is fully autumn with us, with a blight already over the  greens,
and a keen wind in the morning that makes one rather timid  of one's tub when it finds its
way indoors.

I was out this evening to call on a friend, and, coming back  through the wet, crowded, lamp-lit
streets, was singing after my  own fashion, DU HAST DIAMANTEN UND PERLEN, when I heard a poor
cripple man in the gutter wailing over a pitiful Scotch air, his  club-foot supported on the
other knee, and his whole woebegone body  propped sideways against a crutch.  The nearest lamp
threw a strong  light on his worn, sordid face and the three boxes of lucifer  matches that
he held for sale.  My own false notes stuck in my  chest.  How well off I am! is the burthen
of my songs all day long  - DRUM IST SO WOHL MIR IN DER WELT! and the ugly reality of the 
cripple man was an intrusion on the beautiful world in which I was  walking.  He could no more
sing than I could; and his voice was  cracked and rusty, and altogether perished.  To think
that that  wreck may have walked the streets some night years ago, as glad at  heart as I was,
and promising himself a future as golden and  honourable!

SUNDAY, 11.20 A.M. - I wonder what you are doing now? - in church  likely, at the TE DEUM.
Everything here is utterly silent.  I can  hear men's footfalls streets away; the whole life
of Edinburgh has  been sucked into sundry pious edifices; the gardens below my  windows are
steeped in a diffused sunlight, and every tree seems  standing on tiptoes, strained and silent,
as though to get its head  above its neighbour's and LISTEN.  You know what I mean, don't you?
How trees do seem silently to assert themselves on an occasion!  I  have been trying to write
ROADS until I feel as if I were standing  on my head; but I mean ROADS, and shall do something
to them.

I wish I could make you feel the hush that is over everything, only  made the more perfect
by rare interruptions; and the rich, placid  light, and the still, autumnal foliage.  Houses,
you know, stand  all about our gardens:  solid, steady blocks of houses; all look  empty and
asleep.

MONDAY NIGHT. - The drums and fifes up in the Castle are sounding  the guard-call through the
dark, and there is a great rattle of  carriages without.  I have had (I must tell you) my bed
taken out  of this room, so that I am alone in it with my books and two  tables, and two chairs,
and a coal-skuttle (or SCUTTLE) (?) and a  DEBRIS of broken pipes in a corner, and my old school
play-box, so  full of papers and books that the lid will not shut down, standing  reproachfully
in the midst.  There is something in it that is still  a little gaunt and vacant; it needs
a little populous disorder over  it to give it the feel of homeliness, and perhaps a bit more
furniture, just to take the edge off the sense of illimitable  space, eternity, and a future
state, and the like, that is brought  home to one, even in this small attic, by the wide, empty
floor.

You would require to know, what only I can ever know, many grim and  many maudlin passages
out of my past life to feel how great a  change has been made for me by this past summer. 
Let me be ever so  poor and thread-paper a soul, I am going to try for the best.

These good booksellers of mine have at last got a WERTHER without  illustrations.  I want you
to like Charlotte.  Werther himself has  every feebleness and vice that could tend to make
his suicide a  most virtuous and commendable action; and yet I like Werther too -  I don't
know why, except that he has written the most delightful  letters in the world.  Note, by the
way, the passage under date  June 21st not far from the beginning; it finds a voice for a great
deal of dumb, uneasy, pleasurable longing that we have all had,  times without number.  I looked
that up the other day for ROADS, so  I know the reference; but you will find it a garden of
flowers from  beginning to end.  All through the passion keeps steadily rising,  from the thunderstorm
at the country-house - there was thunder in  that story too - up to the last wild delirious
interview; either  Lotte was no good at all, or else Werther should have remained  alive after
that; either he knew his woman too well, or else he was  precipitate.  But an idiot like that
is hopeless; and yet, he  wasn't an idiot - I make reparation, and will offer eighteen pounds
of best wax at his tomb.  Poor devil! he was only the weakest - or,  at least, a very weak
strong man.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

17 HERIOT ROW, EDINBURGH, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1873.

. . . I WAS over last night, contrary to my own wish, in Leven,  Fife; and this morning I had
a conversation of which, I think, some  account might interest you.  I was up with a cousin
who was fishing  in a mill-lade, and a shower of rain drove me for shelter into a  tumbledown
steading attached to the mill.  There I found a labourer  cleaning a byre, with whom I fell
into talk.  The man was to all  appearance as heavy, as HEBETE, as any English clodhopper;
but I  knew I was in Scotland, and launched out forthright into Education  and Politics and
the aims of one's life.  I told him how I had  found the peasantry in Suffolk, and added that
their state had made  me feel quite pained and down-hearted.  'It but to do that,' he  said,
'to onybody that thinks at a'!'  Then, again, he said that he  could not conceive how anything
could daunt or cast down a man who  had an aim in life.  'They that have had a guid schoolin'
and do  nae mair, whatever they do, they have done; but him that has aye  something ayont need
never be weary.'  I have had to mutilate the  dialect much, so that it might be comprehensible
to you; but I  think the sentiment will keep, even through a change of words,  something of
the heartsome ring of encouragement that it had for  me:  and that from a man cleaning a byre!
You see what John Knox  and his schools have done.

SATURDAY. - This has been a charming day for me from morning to now  (5 P.M.).  First, I found
your letter, and went down and read it on  a seat in those Public Gardens of which you have
heard already.   After lunch, my father and I went down to the coast and walked a  little way
along the shore between Granton and Cramond.  This has  always been with me a very favourite
walk.  The Firth closes  gradually together before you, the coast runs in a series of the 
most beautifully moulded bays, hill after hill, wooded and softly  outlined, trends away in
front till the two shores join together.   When the tide is out there are great, gleaming flats
of wet sand,  over which the gulls go flying and crying; and every cape runs down  into them
with its little spit of wall and trees.  We lay together  a long time on the beach; the sea
just babbled among the stones;  and at one time we heard the hollow, sturdy beat of the paddles
of  an unseen steamer somewhere round the cape.  I am glad to say that  the peace of the day
and scenery was not marred by any  unpleasantness between us two.

I am, unhappily, off my style, and can do nothing well; indeed, I  fear I have marred ROADS
finally by patching at it when I was out  of the humour.  Only, I am beginning to see something
great about  John Knox and Queen Mary:  I like them both so much, that I feel as  if I could
write the history fairly.

I have finished ROADS to-day, and send it off to you to see.  The  Lord knows whether it is
worth anything! - some of it pleases me a  good deal, but I fear it is quite unfit for any
possible magazine.   However, I wish you to see it, as you know the humour in which it  was
conceived, walking alone and very happily about the Suffolk  highways and byeways on several
splendid sunny afternoons. -  Believe me, ever your faithful friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

MONDAY. - I have looked over ROADS again, and I am aghast at its  feebleness.  It is the trial
of a very ''prentice hand' indeed.   Shall I ever learn to do anything well?  However, it shall
go to  you, for the reasons given above.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

EDINBURGH, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1873.

. . . I MUST be very strong to have all this vexation and still to  be well.  I was weighed
the other day, and the gross weight of my  large person was eight stone six!  Does it not seem
surprising that  I can keep the lamp alight, through all this gusty weather, in so  frail a
lantern?  And yet it burns cheerily.

My mother is leaving for the country this morning, and my father  and I will be alone for the
best part of the week in this house.   Then on Friday I go south to Dumfries till Monday. 
I must write  small, or I shall have a tremendous budget by then.

7.20 P.M. - I must tell you a thing I saw to-day.  I was going down  to Portobello in the train,
when there came into the next  compartment (third class) an artisan, strongly marked with 
smallpox, and with sunken, heavy eyes - a face hard and unkind, and  without anything lovely.
There was a woman on the platform seeing  him off.  At first sight, with her one eye blind
and the whole cast  of her features strongly plebeian, and even vicious, she seemed as  unpleasant
as the man; but there was something beautifully soft, a  sort of light of tenderness, as on
some Dutch Madonna, that came  over her face when she looked at the man.  They talked for a
while  together through the window; the man seemed to have been asking  money.  'Ye ken the
last time,' she said, 'I gave ye two shillin's  for your ludgin', and ye said - ' it died off
into whisper.   Plainly Falstaff and Dame Quickly over again.  The man laughed  unpleasantly,
even cruelly, and said something; and the woman  turned her back on the carriage and stood
a long while so, and, do  what I might, I could catch no glimpse of her expression, although
I thought I saw the heave of a sob in her shoulders.  At last,  after the train was already
in motion, she turned round and put two  shillings into his hand.  I saw her stand and look
after us with a  perfect heaven of love on her face - this poor one-eyed Madonna -  until the
train was out of sight; but the man, sordidly happy with  his gains, did not put himself to
the inconvenience of one glance  to thank her for her ill-deserved kindness.

I have been up at the Spec. and looked out a reference I wanted.   The whole town is drowned
in white, wet vapour off the sea.   Everything drips and soaks.  The very statues seem wet
to the skin.   I cannot pretend to be very cheerful; I did not see one contented  face in the
streets; and the poor did look so helplessly chill and  dripping, without a stitch to change,
or so much as a fire to dry  themselves at, or perhaps money to buy a meal, or perhaps even
a  bed.  My heart shivers for them.

DUMFRIES, FRIDAY. - All my thirst for a little warmth, a little  sun, a little corner of blue
sky avails nothing.  Without, the rain  falls with a long drawn SWISH, and the night is as
dark as a vault.   There is no wind indeed, and that is a blessed change after the  unruly,
bedlamite gusts that have been charging against one round  street corners and utterly abolishing
and destroying all that is  peaceful in life.  Nothing sours my temper like these coarse  termagant
winds.  I hate practical joking; and your vulgarest  practical joker is your flaw of wind.

I have tried to write some verses; but I find I have nothing to say  that has not been already
perfectly said and perfectly sung in  ADELAIDE.  I have so perfect an idea out of that song!
The great  Alps, a wonder in the starlight - the river, strong from the hills,  and turbulent,
and loudly audible at night - the country, a scented  FRUHLINGSGARTEN of orchards and deep
wood where the nightingales  harbour - a sort of German flavour over all - and this love-drunken
man, wandering on by sleeping village and silent town, pours out of  his full heart, EINST,
O WUNDER, EINST, etc.  I wonder if I am  wrong about this being the most beautiful and perfect
thing in the  world - the only marriage of really accordant words and music -  both drunk with
the same poignant, unutterable sentiment.

To-day in Glasgow my father went off on some business, and my  mother and I wandered about
for two hours.  We had lunch together,  and were very merry over what the people at the restaurant
would  think of us - mother and son they could not suppose us to be.

SATURDAY. - And to-day it came - warmth, sunlight, and a strong,  hearty living wind among
the trees.  I found myself a new being.   My father and I went off a long walk, through a country
most  beautifully wooded and various, under a range of hills.  You should  have seen one place
where the wood suddenly fell away in front of  us down a long, steep hill between a double
row of trees, with one  small fair-haired child framed in shadow in the foreground; and  when
we got to the foot there was the little kirk and kirkyard of  Irongray, among broken fields
and woods by the side of the bright,  rapid river.  In the kirkyard there was a wonderful congregation
of  tombstones, upright and recumbent on four legs (after our Scotch  fashion), and of flat-armed
fir-trees.  One gravestone was erected  by Scott (at a cost, I learn, of 70 pounds) to the
poor woman who  served him as heroine in the HEART OF MIDLOTHIAN, and the  inscription in its
stiff, Jedediah Cleishbotham fashion is not  without something touching.  We went up the stream
a little further  to where two Covenanters lie buried in an oakwood; the tombstone  (as the
custom is) containing the details of their grim little  tragedy in funnily bad rhyme, one verse
of which sticks in my  memory:-

'We died, their furious rage to stay, Near to the kirk of Iron-gray.'

We then fetched a long compass round about through Holywood Kirk  and Lincluden ruins to Dumfries.
But the walk came sadly to grief  as a pleasure excursion before our return . . .

SUNDAY. - Another beautiful day.  My father and I walked into  Dumfries to church.  When the
service was done I noted the two  halberts laid against the pillar of the churchyard gate;
and as I  had not seen the little weekly pomp of civic dignitaries in our  Scotch country towns
for some years, I made my father wait.  You  should have seen the provost and three bailies
going stately away  down the sunlit street, and the two town servants strutting in  front of
them, in red coats and cocked hats, and with the halberts  most conspicuously shouldered. 
We saw Burns's house - a place that  made me deeply sad - and spent the afternoon down the
banks of the  Nith.  I had not spent a day by a river since we lunched in the  meadows near
Sudbury.  The air was as pure and clear and sparkling  as spring water; beautiful, graceful
outlines of hill and wood shut  us in on every side; and the swift, brown river fled smoothly
away  from before our eyes, rippled over with oily eddies and dimples.   White gulls had come
up from the sea to fish, and hovered and flew  hither and thither among the loops of the stream.
By good fortune,  too, it was a dead calm between my father and me.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[EDINBURGH], SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1873.

IT is a little sharp to-day; but bright and sunny with a sparkle in  the air, which is delightful
after four days of unintermitting  rain.  In the streets I saw two men meet after a long separation,
it was plain.  They came forward with a little run and LEAPED at  each other's hands.  You
never saw such bright eyes as they both  had.  It put one in a good humour to see it.

8 P.M. - I made a little more out of my work than I have made for a  long while back; though
even now I cannot make things fall into  sentences - they only sprawl over the paper in bald
orphan clauses.   Then I was about in the afternoon with Baxter; and we had a good  deal of
fun, first rhyming on the names of all the shops we passed,  and afterwards buying needles
and quack drugs from open-air  vendors, and taking much pleasure in their inexhaustible eloquence.
Every now and then as we went, Arthur's Seat showed its head at the  end of a street.  Now,
to-day the blue sky and the sunshine were  both entirely wintry; and there was about the hill,
in these  glimpses, a sort of thin, unreal, crystalline distinctness that I  have not often
seen excelled.  As the sun began to go down over the  valley between the new town and the old,
the evening grew  resplendent; all the gardens and low-lying buildings sank back and  became
almost invisible in a mist of wonderful sun, and the Castle  stood up against the sky, as thin
and sharp in outline as a castle  cut out of paper.  Baxter made a good remark about Princes
Street,  that it was the most elastic street for length that he knew;  sometimes it looks,
as it looked to-night, interminable, a way  leading right into the heart of the red sundown;
sometimes, again,  it shrinks together, as if for warmth, on one of the withering,  clear east-windy
days, until it seems to lie underneath your feet.

I want to let you see these verses from an ODE TO THE CUCKOO,  written by one of the ministers
of Leith in the middle of last  century - the palmy days of Edinburgh - who was a friend of
Hume  and Adam Smith and the whole constellation.  The authorship of  these beautiful verses
has been most truculently fought about; but  whoever wrote them (and it seems as if this Logan
had) they are  lovely -

'What time the pea puts on the bloom, Thou fliest the vocal vale, An annual guest, in other
lands Another spring to hail.

Sweet bird! thy bower is ever green, Thy sky is ever clear; Thou hast no sorrow in thy song,
No winter in thy year.

O could I fly, I'd fly with thee! We'd make on joyful wing Our annual visit o'er the globe,
Companions of the spring.'

SUNDAY. - I have been at church with my mother, where we heard  'Arise, shine,' sung excellently
well, and my mother was so much  upset with it that she nearly had to leave church.  This was
the  antidote, however, to fifty minutes of solid sermon, varra heavy.   I have been sticking
in to Walt Whitman; nor do I think I have ever  laboured so hard to attain so small a success.
Still, the thing is  taking shape, I think; I know a little better what I want to say  all
through; and in process of time, possibly I shall manage to say  it.  I must say I am a very
bad workman, MAIS J'AI DU COURAGE; I am  indefatigable at rewriting and bettering, and surely
that humble  quality should get me on a little.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6. - It is a magnificent glimmering moonlight  night, with a wild, great west
wind abroad, flapping above one like  an immense banner, and every now and again swooping furiously
against my windows.  The wind is too strong perhaps, and the trees  are certainly too leafless
for much of that wide rustle that we  both remember; there is only a sharp, angry, sibilant
hiss, like  breath drawn with the strength of the elements through shut teeth,  that one hears
between the gusts only.  I am in excellent humour  with myself, for I have worked hard and
not altogether fruitlessly;  and I wished before I turned in just to tell you that things were
so.  My dear friend, I feel so happy when I think that you remember  me kindly.  I have been
up to-night lecturing to a friend on life  and duties and what a man could do; a coal off the
altar had been  laid on my lips, and I talked quite above my average, and hope I  spread, what
you would wish to see spread, into one person's heart;  and with a new light upon it.

I shall tell you a story.  Last Friday I went down to Portobello,  in the heavy rain, with
an uneasy wind blowing PAR RAFALES off the  sea (or 'EN RAFALES' should it be? or what?). 
As I got down near  the beach a poor woman, oldish, and seemingly, lately at least,  respectable,
followed me and made signs.  She was drenched to the  skin, and looked wretched below wretchedness.
You know, I did not  like to look back at her; it seemed as if she might misunderstand  and
be terribly hurt and slighted; so I stood at the end of the  street - there was no one else
within sight in the wet - and lifted  up my hand very high with some money in it.  I heard
her steps draw  heavily near behind me, and, when she was near enough to see, I let  the money
fall in the mud and went off at my best walk without ever  turning round.  There is nothing
in the story; and yet you will  understand how much there is, if one chose to set it forth.
You  see, she was so ugly; and you know there is something terribly,  miserably pathetic in
a certain smile, a certain sodden aspect of  invitation on such faces.  It is so terrible,
that it is in a way  sacred; it means the outside of degradation and (what is worst of  all
in life) false position.  I hope you understand me rightly. -  Ever your faithful friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[EDINBURGH], TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1873.

MY father has returned in better health, and I am more delighted  than I can well tell you.
The one trouble that I can see no way  through is that his health, or my mother's, should give
way.  To- night, as I was walking along Princes Street, I heard the bugles  sound the recall.
I do not think I had ever remarked it before;  there is something of unspeakable appeal in
the cadence.  I felt as  if something yearningly cried to me out of the darkness overhead to
come thither and find rest; one felt as if there must be warm  hearts and bright fires waiting
for one up there, where the buglers  stood on the damp pavement and sounded their friendly
invitation  forth into the night.

WEDNESDAY. - I may as well tell you exactly about my health.  I am  not at all ill; have quite
recovered; only I am what MM. LES  MEDECINS call below par; which, in plain English, is that
I am  weak.  With tonics, decent weather, and a little cheerfulness, that  will go away in
its turn, and I shall be all right again.

I am glad to hear what you say about the Exam.; until quite lately  I have treated that pretty
cavalierly, for I say honestly that I do  not mind being plucked; I shall just have to go up
again.  We  travelled with the Lord Advocate the other day, and he strongly  advised me in
my father's hearing to go to the English Bar; and the  Lord Advocate's advice goes a long way
in Scotland.  It is a sort  of special legal revelation.  Don't misunderstand me.  I don't,
of  course, want to be plucked; but so far as my style of knowledge  suits them, I cannot make
much betterment on it in a month.  If  they wish scholarship more exact, I must take a new
lease  altogether.

THURSDAY. - My head and eyes both gave in this morning, and I had  to take a day of complete
idleness.  I was in the open air all day,  and did no thought that I could avoid, and I think
I have got my  head between my shoulders again; however, I am not going to do  much.  I don't
want you to run away with any fancy about my being  ill.  Given a person weak and in some trouble,
and working longer  hours than he is used to, and you have the matter in a nutshell.   You
should have seen the sunshine on the hill to-day; it has lost  now that crystalline clearness,
as if the medium were spring-water  (you see, I am stupid!); but it retains that wonderful
thinness of  outline that makes the delicate shape and hue savour better in  one's mouth, like
fine wine out of a finely-blown glass.  The birds  are all silent now but the crows.  I sat
a long time on the stairs  that lead down to Duddingston Loch - a place as busy as a great
town during frost, but now solitary and silent; and when I shut my  eyes I heard nothing but
the wind in the trees; and you know all  that went through me, I dare say, without my saying it.

II. - I am now all right.  I do not expect any tic to-night, and  shall be at work again to-morrow.
I have had a day of open air,  only a little modified by LE CAPITAINE FRACASSE before the dining-
room fire.  I must write no more, for I am sleepy after two nights,  and to quote my book,
'SINON BLANCHES, DU MOINS GRISES'; and so I  must go to bed and faithfully, hoggishly slumber.
- Your faithful

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

MENTONE, NOVEMBER 13, 1873.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - The PLACE is not where I thought; it is about  where the old Post Office
was.  The Hotel de Londres is no more an  hotel.  I have found a charming room in the Hotel
du Pavillon, just  across the road from the Prince's Villa; it has one window to the  south
and one to the east, with a superb view of Mentone and the  hills, to which I move this afternoon.
In the old great PLACE  there is a kiosque for the sale of newspapers; a string of  omnibuses
(perhaps thirty) go up and down under the plane-trees of  the Turin Road on the occasion of
each train; the Promenade has  crossed both streams, and bids fair to reach the Cap St. Martin.
The old chapel near Freeman's house at the entrance to the Gorbio  valley is now entirely submerged
under a shining new villa, with  Pavilion annexed; over which, in all the pride of oak and
chestnut  and divers coloured marbles, I was shown this morning by the  obliging proprietor.
The Prince's Palace itself is rehabilitated,  and shines afar with white window-curtains from
the midst of a  garden, all trim borders and greenhouses and carefully kept walks.   On the
other side, the villas are more thronged together, and they  have arranged themselves, shelf
after shelf, behind each other.  I  see the glimmer of new buildings, too, as far eastward
as Grimaldi;  and a viaduct carries (I suppose) the railway past the mouth of the  bone caves.
F. Bacon (Lord Chancellor) made the remark that 'Time  was the greatest innovator'; it is perhaps
as meaningless a remark  as was ever made; but as Bacon made it, I suppose it is better than
any that I could make.  Does it not seem as if things were fluid?   They are displaced and
altered in ten years so that one has  difficulty, even with a memory so very vivid and retentive
for that  sort of thing as mine, in identifying places where one lived a long  while in the
past, and which one has kept piously in mind during  all the interval.  Nevertheless, the hills,
I am glad to say, are  unaltered; though I dare say the torrents have given them many a  shrewd
scar, and the rains and thaws dislodged many a boulder from  their heights, if one were only
keen enough to perceive it.  The  sea makes the same noise in the shingle; and the lemon and
orange  gardens still discharge in the still air their fresh perfume; and  the people have
still brown comely faces; and the Pharmacie Gros  still dispenses English medicines; and the
invalids (eheu!) still  sit on the promenade and trifle with their fingers in the fringes 
of shawls and wrappers; and the shop of Pascal Amarante still, in  its present bright consummate
flower of aggrandisement and new  paint, offers everything that it has entered into people's
hearts  to wish for in the idleness of a sanatorium; and the 'Chateau des  Morts' is still
at the top of the town; and the fort and the jetty  are still at the foot, only there are now
two jetties; and - I am  out of breath.  (To be continued in our next.)

For myself, I have come famously through the journey; and as I have  written this letter (for
the first time for ever so long) with ease  and even pleasure, I think my head must be better.
I am still no  good at coming down hills or stairs; and my feet are more  consistently cold
than is quite comfortable.  But, these apart, I  feel well; and in good spirits all round.

I have written to Nice for letters, and hope to get them to-night.   Continue to address Poste
Restante.  Take care of yourselves.

This is my birthday, by the way - O, I said that before.  Adieu. -  Ever your affectionate son,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

MENTONE, SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 1873.

MY DEAR FRIEND, - I sat a long while up among the olive yards to- day at a favourite corner,
where one has a fair view down the  valley and on to the blue floor of the sea.  I had a Horace
with  me, and read a little; but Horace, when you try to read him fairly  under the open heaven,
sounds urban, and you find something of the  escaped townsman in his descriptions of the country,
just as  somebody said that Morris's sea-pieces were all taken from the  coast.  I tried for
long to hit upon some language that might catch  ever so faintly the indefinable shifting colour
of olive leaves;  and, above all, the changes and little silverings that pass over  them, like
blushes over a face, when the wind tosses great branches  to and fro; but the Muse was not
favourable.  A few birds scattered  here and there at wide intervals on either side of the
valley sang  the little broken songs of late autumn and there was a great stir  of insect life
in the grass at my feet.  The path up to this coign  of vantage, where I think I shall make
it a habit to ensconce  myself a while of a morning, is for a little while common to the  peasant
and a little clear brooklet.  It is pleasant, in the  tempered grey daylight of the olive shadows,
to see the people  picking their way among the stones and the water and the brambles;  the
women especially, with the weights poised on their heads and  walking all from the hips with
a certain graceful deliberation.

TUESDAY. - I have been to Nice to-day to see Dr. Bennet; he agrees  with Clark that there is
no disease; but I finished up my day with  a lamentable exhibition of weakness.  I could not
remember French,  or at least I was afraid to go into any place lest I should not be  able
to remember it, and so could not tell when the train went.  At  last I crawled up to the station
and sat down on the steps, and  just steeped myself there in the sunshine until the evening
began  to fall and the air to grow chilly.  This long rest put me all  right; and I came home
here triumphantly and ate dinner well.   There is the full, true, and particular account of
the worst day I  have had since I left London.  I shall not go to Nice again for  some time
to come.

THURSDAY. - I am to-day quite recovered, and got into Mentone to- day for a book, which is
quite a creditable walk.  As an  intellectual being I have not yet begun to re-exist; my immortal
soul is still very nearly extinct; but we must hope the best.  Now,  do take warning by me.
I am set up by a beneficent providence at  the corner of the road, to warn you to flee from
the hebetude that  is to follow.  Being sent to the South is not much good unless you  take
your soul with you, you see; and my soul is rarely with me  here.  I don't see much beauty.
I have lost the key; I can only be  placid and inert, and see the bright days go past uselessly
one  after another; therefore don't talk foolishly with your mouth any  more about getting
liberty by being ill and going south VIA the  sickbed.  It is not the old free-born bird that
gets thus to  freedom; but I know not what manacled and hide-bound spirit,  incapable of pleasure,
the clay of a man.  Go south!  Why, I saw  more beauty with my eyes healthfully alert to see
in two wet windy  February afternoons in Scotland than I can see in my beautiful  olive gardens
and grey hills in a whole week in my low and lost  estate, as the Shorter Catechism puts it
somewhere.  It is a  pitiable blindness, this blindness of the soul; I hope it may not  be
long with me.  So remember to keep well; and remember rather  anything than not to keep well;
and again I say, ANYTHING rather  than not to keep well.

Not that I am unhappy, mind you.  I have found the words already -  placid and inert, that
is what I am.  I sit in the sun and enjoy  the tingle all over me, and I am cheerfully ready
to concur with  any one who says that this is a beautiful place, and I have a  sneaking partiality
for the newspapers, which would be all very  well, if one had not fallen from heaven and were
not troubled with  some reminiscence of the INEFFABLE AURORE.

To sit by the sea and to be conscious of nothing but the sound of  the waves, and the sunshine
over all your body, is not unpleasant;  but I was an Archangel once.

FRIDAY. - If you knew how old I felt!  I am sure this is what age  brings with it - this carelessness,
this disenchantment, this  continual bodily weariness.  I am a man of seventy:  O Medea, kill
me, or make me young again!

To-day has been cloudy and mild; and I have lain a great while on a  bench outside the garden
wall (my usual place now) and looked at  the dove-coloured sea and the broken roof of cloud,
but there was  no seeing in my eye.  Let us hope to-morrow will be more  profitable.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

HOTEL MIRABEAU, MENTONE, SUNDAY, JANUARY 4, 1874.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - We have here fallen on the very pink of hotels.   I do not say that it is
more pleasantly conducted than the  Pavillon, for that were impossible; but the rooms are so
cheery and  bright and new, and then the food!  I never, I think, so fully  appreciated the
phrase 'the fat of the land' as I have done since I  have been here installed.  There was a
dish of eggs at DEJEUNER the  other day, over the memory of which I lick my lips in the silent
watches.

Now that the cold has gone again, I continue to keep well in body,  and already I begin to
walk a little more.  My head is still a very  feeble implement, and easily set a-spinning;
and I can do nothing  in the way of work beyond reading books that may, I hope, be of  some
use to me afterwards.

I was very glad to see that M'Laren was sat upon, and principally  for the reason why.  Deploring
as I do much of the action of the  Trades Unions, these conspiracy clauses and the whole partiality
of  the Master and Servant Act are a disgrace to our equal laws.  Equal  laws become a byeword
when what is legal for one class becomes a  criminal offence for another.  It did my heart
good to hear that  man tell M'Laren how, as he had talked much of getting the  franchise for
working men, he must now be content to see them use  it now they had got it.  This is a smooth
stone well planted in the  foreheads of certain dilettanti radicals, after M'Laren's fashion,
who are willing to give the working men words and wind, and votes  and the like, and yet think
to keep all the advantages, just or  unjust, of the wealthier classes without abatement.  I
do hope wise  men will not attempt to fight the working men on the head of this  notorious
injustice.  Any such step will only precipitate the  action of the newly enfranchised classes,
and irritate them into  acting hastily; when what we ought to desire should be that they  should
act warily and little for many years to come, until  education and habit may make them the
more fit.

All this (intended for my father) is much after the fashion of his  own correspondence.  I
confess it has left my own head exhausted; I  hope it may not produce the same effect on yours.
But I want him  to look really into this question (both sides of it, and not the  representations
of rabid middle-class newspapers, sworn to support  all the little tyrannies of wealth), and
I know he will be  convinced that this is a case of unjust law; and that, however  desirable
the end may seem to him, he will not be Jesuit enough to  think that any end will justify an
unjust law.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - I received yesterday two most charming letters -  the nicest I have had since
I left - December 26th and January 1st:   this morning I got January 3rd.

Into the bargain with Marie, the American girl, who is grace  itself, and comes leaping and
dancing simply like a wave - like  nothing else, and who yesterday was Queen out of the Epiphany
cake  and chose Robinet (the French Painter) as her FAVORI with the most  pretty confusion
possible - into the bargain with Marie, we have  two little Russian girls, with the youngest
of whom, a little  polyglot button of a three-year old, I had the most laughable  little scene
at lunch to-day.  I was watching her being fed with  great amusement, her face being as broad
as it is long, and her  mouth capable of unlimited extension; when suddenly, her eye  catching
mine, the fashion of her countenance was changed, and  regarding me with a really admirable
appearance of offended  dignity, she said something in Italian which made everybody laugh 
much.  It was explained to me that she had said I was very POLISSON  to stare at her.  After
this she was somewhat taken up with me, and  after some examination she announced emphatically
to the whole  table, in German, that I was a MADCHEN; which word she repeated  with shrill
emphasis, as though fearing that her proposition would  be called in question - MADCHEN, MADCHEN,
MADCHEN, MADCHEN.  This  hasty conclusion as to my sex she was led afterwards to revise, I
am informed; but her new opinion (which seems to have been  something nearer the truth) was
announced in a third language quite  unknown to me, and probably Russian.  To complete the
scroll of her  accomplishments, she was brought round the table after the meal was  over, and
said good-bye to me in very commendable English.

The weather I shall say nothing about, as I am incapable of  explaining my sentiments upon
that subject before a lady.  But my  health is really greatly improved:  I begin to recognise
myself  occasionally now and again, not without satisfaction.

Please remember me very kindly to Professor Swan; I wish I had a  story to send him; but story,
Lord bless you, I have none to tell,  sir, unless it is the foregoing adventure with the little
polyglot.   The best of that depends on the significance of POLISSON, which is  beautifully
out of place.

SATURDAY, 10TH JANUARY. - The little Russian kid is only two and a  half:  she speaks six languages.
She and her sister (aet. 8) and  May Johnstone (aet. 8) are the delight of my life.  Last night
I  saw them all dancing - O it was jolly; kids are what is the matter  with me.  After the
dancing, we all - that is the two Russian  ladies, Robinet the French painter, Mr. and Mrs.
Johnstone, two  governesses, and fitful kids joining us at intervals - played a  game of the
stool of repentance in the Gallic idiom.

O - I have not told you that Colvin is gone; however, he is coming  back again; he has left
clothes in pawn to me. - Ever your  affectionate son,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

MENTONE, TUESDAY, 13TH JANUARY 1874.

. . . I LOST a Philipine to little Mary Johnstone last night; so  to-day I sent her a rubbishing
doll's toilet, and a little note  with it, with some verses telling how happy children made
every one  near them happy also, and advising her to keep the lines, and some  day, when she
was 'grown a stately demoiselle,' it would make her  'glad to know she gave pleasure long ago,'
all in a very lame  fashion, with just a note of prose at the end, telling her to mind  her
doll and the dog, and not trouble her little head just now to  understand the bad verses; for
some time when she was ill, as I am  now, they would be plain to her and make her happy.  She
has just  been here to thank me, and has left me very happy.  Children are  certainly too good
to be true.

Yesterday I walked too far, and spent all the afternoon on the  outside of my bed; went finally
to rest at nine, and slept nearly  twelve hours on the stretch.  Bennet (the doctor), when
told of it  this morning, augured well for my recovery; he said youth must be  putting in strong;
of course I ought not to have slept at all.  As  it was, I dreamed HORRIDLY; but not my usual
dreams of social  miseries and misunderstandings and all sorts of crucifixions of the  spirit;
but of good, cheery, physical things - of long successions  of vaulted, dimly lit cellars full
of black water, in which I went  swimming among toads and unutterable, cold, blind fishes.
Now and  then these cellars opened up into sort of domed music-hall places,  where one could
land for a little on the slope of the orchestra,  but a sort of horror prevented one from staying
long, and made one  plunge back again into the dead waters.  Then my dream changed, and  I
was a sort of Siamese pirate, on a very high deck with several  others.  The ship was almost
captured, and we were fighting  desperately.  The hideous engines we used and the perfectly
incredible carnage that we effected by means of them kept me  cheery, as you may imagine; especially
as I felt all the time my  sympathy with the boarders, and knew that I was only a prisoner
with these horrid Malays.  Then I saw a signal being given, and  knew they were going to blow
up the ship.  I leaped right off, and  heard my captors splash in the water after me as thick
as pebbles  when a bit of river bank has given way beneath the foot.  I never  heard the ship
blow up; but I spent the rest of the night swimming  about some piles with the whole sea full
of Malays, searching for  me with knives in their mouths.  They could swim any distance under
water, and every now and again, just as I was beginning to reckon  myself safe, a cold hand
would be laid on my ankle - ugh!

However, my long sleep, troubled as it was, put me all right again,  and I was able to work
acceptably this morning and be very jolly  all day.  This evening I have had a great deal of
talk with both  the Russian ladies; they talked very nicely, and are bright,  likable women
both.  They come from Georgia.

WEDNESDAY, 10.30. - We have all been to tea to-night at the  Russians' villa.  Tea was made
out of a samovar, which is something  like a small steam engine, and whose principal advantage
is that it  burns the fingers of all who lay their profane touch upon it.   After tea Madame
Z. played Russian airs, very plaintive and pretty;  so the evening was Muscovite from beginning
to end.  Madame G.'s  daughter danced a tarantella, which was very pretty.

Whenever Nelitchka cries - and she never cries except from pain -  all that one has to do is
to start 'Malbrook s'en va-t-en guerre.'   She cannot resist the attraction; she is drawn through
her sobs  into the air; and in a moment there is Nelly singing, with the glad  look that comes
into her face always when she sings, and all the  tears and pain forgotten.

It is wonderful, before I shut this up, how that child remains ever  interesting to me.  Nothing
can stale her infinite variety; and yet  it is not very various.  You see her thinking what
she is to do or  to say next, with a funny grave air of reserve, and then the face  breaks
up into a smile, and it is probably 'Berecchino!' said with  that sudden little jump of the
voice that one knows in children, as  the escape of a jack-in-the-box, and, somehow, I am quite
happy  after that!

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[MENTONE, JANUARY 1874.]

. . . LAST night I had a quarrel with the American on politics.  It  is odd how it irritates
you to hear certain political statements  made.  He was excited, and he began suddenly to abuse
our conduct  to America.  I, of course, admitted right and left that we had  behaved disgracefully
(as we had); until somehow I got tired of  turning alternate cheeks and getting duly buffeted;
and when he  said that the Alabama money had not wiped out the injury, I  suggested, in language
(I remember) of admirable directness and  force, that it was a pity they had taken the money
in that case.   He lost his temper at once, and cried out that his dearest wish was  a war
with England; whereupon I also lost my temper, and,  thundering at the pitch of my voice, I
left him and went away by  myself to another part of the garden.  A very tender reconciliation
took place, and I think there will come no more harm out of it.  We  are both of us nervous
people, and he had had a very long walk and  a good deal of beer at dinner:  that explains
the scene a little.   But I regret having employed so much of the voice with which I have 
been endowed, as I fear every person in the hotel was taken into  confidence as to my sentiments,
just at the very juncture when  neither the sentiments nor (perhaps) the language had been
sufficiently considered.

FRIDAY. - You have not yet heard of my book? - FOUR GREAT SCOTSMEN  - John Knox, David Hume,
Robert Burns, Walter Scott.  These, their  lives, their work, the social media in which they
lived and worked,  with, if I can so make it, the strong current of the race making  itself
felt underneath and throughout - this is my idea.  You must  tell me what you think of it.
The Knox will really be new matter,  as his life hitherto has been disgracefully written, and
the events  are romantic and rapid; the character very strong, salient, and  worthy; much interest
as to the future of Scotland, and as to that  part of him which was truly modern under his
Hebrew disguise.   Hume, of course, the urbane, cheerful, gentlemanly, letter-writing  eighteenth
century, full of attraction, and much that I don't yet  know as to his work.  Burns, the sentimental
side that there is in  most Scotsmen, his poor troubled existence, how far his poems were 
his personally, and how far national, the question of the framework  of society in Scotland,
and its fatal effect upon the finest  natures.  Scott again, the ever delightful man, sane,
courageous,  admirable; the birth of Romance, in a dawn that was a sunset;  snobbery, conservatism,
the wrong thread in History, and notably in  that of his own land.  VOILA, MADAME, LE MENU.
COMMENT LE TROUVEZ- VOUS?  IL Y A DE LA BONNE VIANDO, SI ON PARVIENT A LA CUIRE  CONVENABLEMENT.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

[MENTONE, MARCH 28, 1874.]

MY DEAR MOTHER, - Beautiful weather, perfect weather; sun, pleasant  cooling winds; health
very good; only incapacity to write.

The only new cloud on my horizon (I mean this in no menacing sense)  is the Prince.  I have
philosophical and artistic discussions with  the Prince.  He is capable of talking for two
hours upon end,  developing his theory of everything under Heaven from his first  position,
which is that there is no straight line.  Doesn't that  sound like a game of my father's -
I beg your pardon, you haven't  read it - I don't mean MY father, I mean Tristram Shandy's.
He is  very clever, and it is an immense joke to hear him unrolling all  the problems of life
- philosophy, science, what you will - in this  charmingly cut-and-dry, here-we-are-again kind
of manner.  He is  better to listen to than to argue withal.  When you differ from  him, he
lifts up his voice and thunders; and you know that the  thunder of an excited foreigner often
miscarries.  One stands  aghast, marvelling how such a colossus of a man, in such a great 
commotion of spirit, can open his mouth so much and emit such a  still small voice at the hinder
end of it all.  All this while he  walks about the room, smokes cigarettes, occupies divers
chairs for  divers brief spaces, and casts his huge arms to the four winds like  the sails
of a mill.  He is a most sportive Prince.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[SWANSTON], MAY 1874, MONDAY.

WE are now at Swanston Cottage, Lothianburn, Edinburgh.  The garden  is but little clothed
yet, for, you know, here we are six hundred  feet above the sea.  It is very cold, and has
sleeted this morning.   Everything wintry.  I am very jolly, however, having finished  Victor
Hugo, and just looking round to see what I should next take  up.  I have been reading Roman
Law and Calvin this morning.

EVENING. - I went up the hill a little this afternoon.  The air was  invigorating, but it was
so cold that my scalp was sore.  With this  high wintry wind, and the grey sky, and faint northern
daylight, it  was quite wonderful to hear such a clamour of blackbirds coming up  to me out
of the woods, and the bleating of sheep being shorn in a  field near the garden, and to see
golden patches of blossom already  on the furze, and delicate green shoots upright and beginning
to  frond out, among last year's russet bracken.  Flights of crows were  passing continually
between the wintry leaden sky and the wintry  cold-looking hills.  It was the oddest conflict
of seasons.  A wee  rabbit - this year's making, beyond question - ran out from under  my feet,
and was in a pretty perturbation, until he hit upon a  lucky juniper and blotted himself there
promptly.  Evidently this  gentleman had not had much experience of life.

I have made an arrangement with my people:  I am to have 84 pounds  a year - I only asked for
80 pounds on mature reflection - and as I  should soon make a good bit by my pen, I shall be
very comfortable.   We are all as jolly as can be together, so that is a great thing  gained.

WEDNESDAY. - Yesterday I received a letter that gave me much  pleasure from a poor fellow-student
of mine, who has been all  winter very ill, and seems to be but little better even now.  He
seems very much pleased with ORDERED SOUTH.  'A month ago,' he  says, 'I could scarcely have
ventured to read it; to-day I felt on  reading it as I did on the first day that I was able
to sun myself  a little in the open air.'  And much more to the like effect.

STRUGGLING away at FABLES IN SONG.  I am much afraid I am going to  make a real failure; the
time is so short, and I am so out of the  humour.  Otherwise very calm and jolly:  cold still
IMPOSSIBLE.

THURSDAY. - I feel happier about the FABLES, and it is warmer a  bit; but my body is most decrepit,
and I can just manage to be  cheery and tread down hypochondria under foot by work.  I lead
such  a funny life, utterly without interest or pleasure outside of my  work:  nothing, indeed,
but work all day long, except a short walk  alone on the cold hills, and meals, and a couple
of pipes with my  father in the evening.  It is surprising how it suits me, and how  happy I keep.

SATURDAY. - I have received such a nice long letter (four sides)  from Leslie Stephen to-day
about my Victor Hugo.  It is accepted.   This ought to have made me gay, but it hasn't.  I
am not likely to  be much of a tonic to-night.  I have been very cynical over myself  to-day,
partly, perhaps, because I have just finished some of the  deedest rubbish about Lord Lytton's
fables that an intelligent  editor ever shot into his wastepaper basket.  If Morley prints
it I  shall be glad, but my respect for him will be shaken.

TUESDAY. - Another cold day; yet I have been along the hillside,  wondering much at idiotic
sheep, and raising partridges at every  second step.  One little plover is the object of my
firm adherence.   I pass his nest every day, and if you saw how he files by me, and  almost
into my face, crying and flapping his wings, to direct my  attention from his little treasure,
you would have as kind a heart  to him as I.  To-day I saw him not, although I took my usual
way;  and I am afraid that some person has abused his simple wiliness and  harried (as we say
in Scotland) the nest.  I feel much righteous  indignation against such imaginary aggressor.
However, one must  not be too chary of the lower forms.  To-day I sat down on a tree- stump
at the skirt of a little strip of planting, and thoughtlessly  began to dig out the touchwood
with an end of twig.  I found I had  carried ruin, death, and universal consternation into
a little  community of ants; and this set me a-thinking of how close we are  environed with
frail lives, so that we can do nothing without  spreading havoc over all manner of perishable
homes and interests  and affections; and so on to my favourite mood of an holy terror  for
all action and all inaction equally - a sort of shuddering  revulsion from the necessary responsibilities
of life.  We must not  be too scrupulous of others, or we shall die.  Conscientiousness is
a sort of moral opium; an excitant in small doses, perhaps, but at  bottom a strong narcotic.

SATURDAY. - I have been two days in Edinburgh, and so had not the  occasion to write to you.
Morley has accepted the FABLES, and I  have seen it in proof, and think less of it than ever.
However, of  course, I shall send you a copy of the MAGAZINE without fail, and  you can be
as disappointed as you like, or the reverse if you can.   I would willingly recall it if I could.

Try, by way of change, Byron's MAZEPPA; you will be astonished.  It  is grand and no mistake,
and one sees through it a fire, and a  passion, and a rapid intuition of genius, that makes
one rather  sorry for one's own generation of better writers, and - I don't  know what to say;
I was going to say 'smaller men'; but that's not  right; read it, and you will feel what I
cannot express.

MY father and mother reading.  I think I shall talk to you for a  moment or two.  This morning
at Swanston, the birds, poor  creatures, had the most troubled hour or two; evidently there
was a  hawk in the neighbourhood; not one sang; and the whole garden  thrilled with little
notes of warning and terror.  I did not know  before that the voice of birds could be so tragically
expressive.   I had always heard them before express their trivial satisfaction  with the blue
sky and the return of daylight.  Really, they almost  frightened me; I could hear mothers and
wives in terror for those  who were dear to them; it was easy to translate, I wish it were
as  easy to write; but it is very hard in this flying train, or I would  write you more.

CHESTER. - I like this place much; but somehow I feel glad when I  get among the quiet eighteenth
century buildings, in cosy places  with some elbow room about them, after the older architecture.
This other is bedevilled and furtive; it seems to stoop; I am  afraid of trap-doors, and could
not go pleasantly into such houses.   I don't know how much of this is legitimately the effect
of the  architecture; little enough possibly; possibly far the most part of  it comes from
bad historical novels and the disquieting statuary  that garnishes some facades.

On the way, to-day, I passed through my dear Cumberland country.   Nowhere to as great a degree
can one find the combination of  lowland and highland beauties; the outline of the blue hills
is  broken by the outline of many tumultuous tree-clumps; and the broad  spaces of moorland
are balanced by a network of deep hedgerows that  might rival Suffolk, in the foreground. -
How a railway journey  shakes and discomposes one, mind and body!  I grow blacker and  blacker
in humour as the day goes on; and when at last I am let  out, and have the fresh air about
me, it is as though I were born  again, and the sick fancies flee away from my mind like swans
in  spring.

I want to come back on what I have said about eighteenth century  and middle-age houses:  I
do not know if I have yet explained to  you the sort of loyalty, of urbanity, that there is
about the one  to my mind; the spirit of a country orderly and prosperous, a  flavour of the
presence of magistrates and well-to-do merchants in  bag-wigs, the clink of glasses at night
in fire-lit parlours,  something certain and civic and domestic, is all about these quiet,
staid, shapely houses, with no character but their exceeding  shapeliness, and the comely external
utterance that they make of  their internal comfort.  Now the others are, as I have said, both
furtive and bedevilled; they are sly and grotesque; they combine  their sort of feverish grandeur
with their sort of secretive  baseness, after the manner of a Charles the Ninth.  They are
peopled for me with persons of the same fashion.  Dwarfs and  sinister people in cloaks are
about them; and I seem to divine  crypts, and, as I said, trap-doors.  O God be praised that
we live  in this good daylight and this good peace.

BARMOUTH, AUGUST 9TH. - To-day we saw the cathedral at Chester;  and, far more delightful,
saw and heard a certain inimitable verger  who took us round.  He was full of a certain recondite,
far-away  humour that did not quite make you laugh at the time, but was  somehow laughable
to recollect.  Moreover, he had so far a just  imagination, and could put one in the right
humour for seeing an  old place, very much as, according to my favourite text, Scott's  novels
and poems do for one.  His account of the monks in the  Scriptorium, with their cowls over
their heads, in a certain  sheltered angle of the cloister where the big Cathedral building
kept the sun off the parchments, was all that could be wished; and  so too was what he added
of the others pacing solemnly behind them  and dropping, ever and again, on their knees before
a little shrine  there is in the wall, 'to keep 'em in the frame of mind.'  You will  begin
to think me unduly biassed in this verger's favour if I go on  to tell you his opinion of me.
We got into a little side chapel,  whence we could hear the choir children at practice, and
I stopped  a moment listening to them, with, I dare say, a very bright face,  for the sound
was delightful to me.  'Ah,' says he, 'you're VERY  fond of music.'  I said I was.  'Yes, I
could tell that by your  head,' he answered.  'There's a deal in that head.'  And he shook
his own solemnly.  I said it might be so, but I found it hard, at  least, to get it out.  Then
my father cut in brutally, said anyway  I had no ear, and left the verger so distressed and
shaken in the  foundations of his creed that, I hear, he got my father aside  afterwards and
said he was sure there was something in my face, and  wanted to know what it was, if not music.
He was relieved when he  heard that I occupied myself with litterature (which word, note  here,
I do not spell correctly).  Good-night, and here's the  verger's health!

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

SWANSTON, WEDNESDAY, [AUTUMN] 1874.

I HAVE been hard at work all yesterday, and besides had to write a  long letter to Bob, so
I found no time until quite late, and then  was sleepy.  Last night it blew a fearful gale;
I was kept awake  about a couple of hours, and could not get to sleep for the horror  of the
wind's noise; the whole house shook; and, mind you, our  house IS a house, a great castle of
jointed stone that would weigh  up a street of English houses; so that when it quakes, as it
did  last night, it means something.  But the quaking was not what put  me about; it was the
horrible howl of the wind round the corner;  the audible haunting of an incarnate anger about
the house; the  evil spirit that was abroad; and, above all, the shuddering silent  pauses
when the storm's heart stands dreadfully still for a moment.   O how I hate a storm at night!
They have been a great influence in  my life, I am sure; for I can remember them so far back
- long  before I was six at least, for we left the house in which I  remember listening to
them times without number when I was six.   And in those days the storm had for me a perfect
impersonation, as  durable and unvarying as any heathen deity.  I always heard it, as  a horseman
riding past with his cloak about his head, and somehow  always carried away, and riding past
again, and being baffled yet  once more, AD INFINITUM, all night long.  I think I wanted him
to  get past, but I am not sure; I know only that I had some interest  either for or against
in the matter; and I used to lie and hold my  breath, not quite frightened, but in a state
of miserable  exaltation.

My first John Knox is in proof, and my second is on the anvil.  It  is very good of me so to
do; for I want so much to get to my real  tour and my sham tour, the real tour first:  it is
always working  in my head, and if I can only turn on the right sort of style at  the right
moment, I am not much afraid of it.  One thing bothers  me; what with hammering at this J.
K., and writing necessary  letters, and taking necessary exercise (that even not enough, the
weather is so repulsive to me, cold and windy), I find I have no  time for reading except times
of fatigue, when I wish merely to  relax myself.  O - and I read over again for this purpose
Flaubert's TENTATION DE ST. ANTOINE; it struck me a good deal at  first, but this second time
it has fetched me immensely.  I am but  just done with it, so you will know the large proportion
of salt to  take with my present statement, that it's the finest thing I ever  read!  Of course,
it isn't that, it's full of LONGUEURS, and is not  quite 'redd up,' as we say in Scotland,
not quite articulated; but  there are splendid things in it.

I say, DO take your maccaroni with oil:  DO, PLEASE.

MONDAY. - I have come from a concert, and the concert was rather a  disappointment.  Not so
my afternoon skating - Duddingston, our big  loch, is bearing; and I wish you could have seen
it this afternoon,  covered with people, in thin driving snow flurries, the big hill  grim
and white and alpine overhead in the thick air, and the road  up the gorge, as it were into
the heart of it, dotted black with  traffic.  Moreover, I CAN skate a little bit; and what
one can do  is always pleasant to do.

TUESDAY. - I got your letter to-day, and was so glad thereof.  It  was of good omen to me also.
I worked from ten to one (my classes  are suspended now for Xmas holidays), and wrote four
or five  Portfolio pages of my Buckinghamshire affair.  Then I went to  Duddingston and skated
all afternoon.  If you had seen the moon  rising, a perfect sphere of smoky gold, in the dark
air above the  trees, and the white loch thick with skaters, and the great hill,  snow-sprinkled,
overhead!  It was a sight for a king.

WEDNESDAY. - I stayed on Duddingston to-day till after nightfall.   The little booths that
hucksters set up round the edge were marked  each one by its little lamp.  There were some
fires too; and the  light, and the shadows of the people who stood round them to warm  themselves,
made a strange pattern all round on the snow-covered  ice.  A few people with torches began
to travel up and down the  ice, a lit circle travelling along with them over the snow.  A 
gigantic moon rose, meanwhile, over the trees and the kirk on the  promontory, among perturbed
and vacillating clouds.

The walk home was very solemn and strange.  Once, through a broken  gorge, we had a glimpse
of a little space of mackerel sky, moon- litten, on the other side of the hill; the broken
ridges standing  grey and spectral between; and the hilltop over all, snow-white,  and strangely
magnified in size.

This must go to you to-morrow, so that you may read it on Christmas  Day for company.  I hope
it may be good company to you.

THURSDAY. - Outside, it snows thick and steadily.  The gardens  before our house are now a
wonderful fairy forest.  And O, this  whiteness of things, how I love it, how it sends the
blood about my  body!  Maurice de Guerin hated snow; what a fool he must have been!   Somebody
tried to put me out of conceit with it by saying that  people were lost in it.  As if people
don't get lost in love, too,  and die of devotion to art; as if everything worth were not an
occasion to some people's end.

What a wintry letter this is!  Only I think it is winter seen from  the inside of a warm greatcoat.
And there is, at least, a warm  heart about it somewhere.  Do you know, what they say in Xmas
stories is true?  I think one loves their friends more dearly at  this season. - Ever your
faithful friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

17 HERIOT ROAD, EDINBURGH [JANUARY 1875].

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I have worked too hard; I have given myself one  day of rest, and that was
not enough; I am giving myself another.   I shall go to bed again likewise so soon as this
is done, and  slumber most potently.

9 P.M., slept all afternoon like a lamb.

About my coming south, I think the still small unanswerable voice  of coins will make it impossible
until the session is over (end of  March); but for all that, I think I shall hold out jolly.
I do not  want you to come and bother yourself; indeed, it is still not quite  certain whether
my father will be quite fit for you, although I  have now no fear of that really.  Now don't
take up this wrongly; I  wish you could come; and I do not know anything that would make me
happier, but I see that it is wrong to expect it, and so I resign  myself:  some time after.
I offered Appleton a series of papers on  the modern French school - the Parnassiens, I think
they call them  - de Banville, Coppee, Soulary, and Sully Prudhomme.  But he has  not deigned
to answer my letter.

I shall have another Portfolio paper so soon as I am done with this  story, that has played
me out; the story is to be called WHEN THE  DEVIL WAS WELL:  scene, Italy, Renaissance; colour,
purely  imaginary of course, my own unregenerate idea of what Italy then  was.  O, when shall
I find the story of my dreams, that shall never  halt nor wander nor step aside, but go ever
before its face, and  ever swifter and louder, until the pit receives it, roaring?  The  Portfolio
paper will be about Scotland and England. - Ever yours,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

EDINBURGH, TUESDAY [FEBRUARY 1875].

I GOT your nice long gossiping letter to-day - I mean by that that  there was more news in
it than usual - and so, of course, I am  pretty jolly.  I am in the house, however, with such
a beastly cold  in the head.  Our east winds begin already to be very cold.

O, I have such a longing for children of my own; and yet I do not  think I could bear it if
I had one.  I fancy I must feel more like  a woman than like a man about that.  I sometimes
hate the children  I see on the street - you know what I mean by hate - wish they were  somewhere
else, and not there to mock me; and sometimes, again, I  don't know how to go by them for the
love of them, especially the  very wee ones.

THURSDAY. - I have been still in the house since I wrote, and I  HAVE worked.  I finished the
Italian story; not well, but as well  as I can just now; I must go all over it again, some
time soon,  when I feel in the humour to better and perfect it.  And now I have  taken up an
old story, begun years ago; and I have now re-written  all I had written of it then, and mean
to finish it.  What I have  lost and gained is odd.  As far as regards simple writing, of 
course, I am in another world now; but in some things, though more  clumsy, I seem to have
been freer and more plucky:  this is a  lesson I have taken to heart.  I have got a jolly new
name for my  old story.  I am going to call it A COUNTRY DANCE; the two heroes  keep changing
places, you know; and the chapter where the most of  this changing goes on is to be called
'Up the middle, down the  middle.'  It will be in six, or (perhaps) seven chapters.  I have
never worked harder in my life than these last four days.  If I can  only keep it up.

SATURDAY. - Yesterday, Leslie Stephen, who was down here to  lecture, called on me and took
me up to see a poor fellow, a poet  who writes for him, and who has been eighteen months in
our  infirmary, and may be, for all I know, eighteen months more.  It  was very sad to see
him there, in a little room with two beds, and  a couple of sick children in the other bed;
a girl came in to visit  the children, and played dominoes on the counterpane with them; the
gas flared and crackled, the fire burned in a dull economical way;  Stephen and I sat on a
couple of chairs, and the poor fellow sat up  in his bed with his hair and beard all tangled,
and talked as  cheerfully as if he had been in a King's palace, or the great  King's palace
of the blue air.  He has taught himself two languages  since he has been lying there.  I shall
try to be of use to him.

We have had two beautiful spring days, mild as milk, windy withal,  and the sun hot.  I dreamed
last night I was walking by moonlight  round the place where the scene of my story is laid;
it was all so  quiet and sweet, and the blackbirds were singing as if it was day;  it made
my heart very cool and happy. - Ever yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

FEBRUARY 8, 1875.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Forgive my bothering you.  Here is the proof of  my second KNOX.  Glance
it over, like a good fellow, and if there's  anything very flagrant send it to me marked. 
I have no confidence  in myself; I feel such an ass.  What have I been doing?  As near as 
I can calculate, nothing.  And yet I have worked all this month  from three to five hours a
day, that is to say, from one to three  hours more than my doctor allows me; positively no result.

No, I can write no article just now; I am PIOCHING, like a madman,  at my stories, and can
make nothing of them; my simplicity is tame  and dull - my passion tinsel, boyish, hysterical.
Never mind - ten  years hence, if I live, I shall have learned, so help me God.  I  know one
must work, in the meantime (so says Balzac) COMME LE  MINEUR ENFOUI SOUS UN EBOULEMENT.

J'Y PARVIENDRAI, NOM DE NOM DE NOM!  But it's a long look forward.  - Ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[BARBIZON, APRIL 1875.]

MY DEAR FRIEND, - This is just a line to say I am well and happy.   I am here in my dear forest
all day in the open air.  It is very be  - no, not beautiful exactly, just now, but very bright
and living.   There are one or two song birds and a cuckoo; all the fruit-trees  are in flower,
and the beeches make sunshine in a shady place, I  begin to go all right; you need not be vexed
about my health; I  really was ill at first, as bad as I have been for nearly a year;  but
the forest begins to work, and the air, and the sun, and the  smell of the pines.  If I could
stay a month here, I should be as  right as possible.  Thanks for your letter. - Your faithful

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

17 HERIOT ROW, EDINBURGH, SUNDAY [APRIL 1875].

HERE is my long story:  yesterday night, after having supped, I  grew so restless that I was
obliged to go out in search of some  excitement.  There was a half-moon lying over on its back,
and  incredibly bright in the midst of a faint grey sky set with faint  stars:  a very inartistic
moon, that would have damned a picture.

At the most populous place of the city I found a little boy, three  years old perhaps, half
frantic with terror, and crying to every  one for his 'Mammy.'  This was about eleven, mark
you.  People  stopped and spoke to him, and then went on, leaving him more  frightened than
before.  But I and a good-humoured mechanic came up  together; and I instantly developed a
latent faculty for setting  the hearts of children at rest.  Master Tommy Murphy (such was
his  name) soon stopped crying, and allowed me to take him up and carry  him; and the mechanic
and I trudged away along Princes Street to  find his parents.  I was soon so tired that I had
to ask the  mechanic to carry the bairn; and you should have seen the puzzled  contempt with
which he looked at me, for knocking in so soon.  He  was a good fellow, however, although very
impracticable and  sentimental; and he soon bethought him that Master Murphy might  catch cold
after his excitement, so we wrapped him up in my  greatcoat.  'Tobauga (Tobago) Street' was
the address he gave us;  and we deposited him in a little grocer's shop and went through all
the houses in the street without being able to find any one of the  name of Murphy.  Then I
set off to the head police office, leaving  my greatcoat in pawn about Master Murphy's person.
As I went down  one of the lowest streets in the town, I saw a little bit of life  that struck
me.  It was now half-past twelve, a little shop stood  still half-open, and a boy of four or
five years old was walking up  and down before it imitating cockcrow.  He was the only living
creature within sight.

At the police offices no word of Master Murphy's parents; so I went  back empty-handed.  The
good groceress, who had kept her shop open  all this time, could keep the child no longer;
her father, bad with  bronchitis, said he must forth.  So I got a large scone with  currants
in it, wrapped my coat about Tommy, got him up on my arm,  and away to the police office with
him:  not very easy in my mind,  for the poor child, young as he was - he could scarce speak
- was  full of terror for the 'office,' as he called it.  He was now very  grave and quiet
and communicative with me; told me how his father  thrashed him, and divers household matters.
Whenever he saw a  woman on our way he looked after her over my shoulder and then gave  his
judgment:  'That's no HER,' adding sometimes, 'She has a wean  wi' her.'  Meantime I was telling
him how I was going to take him  to a gentleman who would find out his mother for him quicker
than  ever I could, and how he must not be afraid of him, but be brave,  as he had been with
me.  We had just arrived at our destination -  we were just under the lamp - when he looked
me in the face and  said appealingly, 'He'll no put - me in the office?'  And I had to  assure
him that he would not, even as I pushed open the door and  took him in.

The serjeant was very nice, and I got Tommy comfortably seated on a  bench, and spirited him
up with good words and the scone with the  currants in it; and then, telling him I was just
going out to look  for Mammy, I got my greatcoat and slipped away.

Poor little boy! he was not called for, I learn, until ten this  morning.  This is very ill
written, and I've missed half that was  picturesque in it; but to say truth, I am very tired
and sleepy:   it was two before I got to bed.  However, you see, I had my  excitement.

MONDAY. - I have written nothing all morning; I cannot settle to  it.  Yes - I WILL though.

10.45. - And I did.  I want to say something more to you about the  three women.  I wonder
so much why they should have been WOMEN, and  halt between two opinions in the matter.  Sometimes
I think it is  because they were made by a man for men; sometimes, again, I think  there is
an abstract reason for it, and there is something more  substantive about a woman than ever
there can be about a man.  I  can conceive a great mythical woman, living alone among  inaccessible
mountain-tops or in some lost island in the pagan  seas, and ask no more.  Whereas if I hear
of a Hercules, I ask  after Iole or Dejanira.  I cannot think him a man without women.   But
I can think of these three deep-breasted women, living out all  their days on remote hilltops,
seeing the white dawn and the purple  even, and the world outspread before them for ever, and
no more to  them for ever than a sight of the eyes, a hearing of the ears, a  far-away interest
of the inflexible heart, not pausing, not  pitying, but austere with a holy austerity, rigid
with a calm and  passionless rigidity; and I find them none the less women to the  end.

And think, if one could love a woman like that once, see her once  grow pale with passion,
and once wring your lips out upon hers,  would it not be a small thing to die?  Not that there
is not a  passion of a quite other sort, much less epic, far more dramatic  and intimate, that
comes out of the very frailty of perishable  women; out of the lines of suffering that we see
written about  their eyes, and that we may wipe out if it were but for a moment;  out of the
thin hands, wrought and tempered in agony to a fineness  of perception, that the indifferent
or the merely happy cannot  know; out of the tragedy that lies about such a love, and the 
pathetic incompleteness.  This is another thing, and perhaps it is  a higher.  I look over
my shoulder at the three great headless  Madonnas, and they look back at me and do not move;
see me, and  through and over me, the foul life of the city dying to its embers  already as
the night draws on; and over miles and miles of silent  country, set here and there with lit
towns, thundered through here  and there with night expresses scattering fire and smoke; and
away  to the ends of the earth, and the furthest star, and the blank  regions of nothing; and
they are not moved.  My quiet, great-kneed,  deep-breasted, well-draped ladies of Necessity,
I give my heart to  you!

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[SWANSTON, TUESDAY, APRIL 1875.]

MY DEAR FRIEND, - I have been so busy, away to Bridge Of Allan with  my father first, and then
with Simpson and Baxter out here from  Saturday till Monday.  I had no time to write, and,
as it is, am  strangely incapable.  Thanks for your letter.  I have been reading  such lots
of law, and it seems to take away the power of writing  from me.  From morning to night, so
often as I have a spare moment,  I am in the embrace of a law book - barren embraces.  I am
in good  spirits; and my heart smites me as usual, when I am in good  spirits, about my parents.
If I get a bit dull, I am away to  London without a scruple; but so long as my heart keeps
up, I am  all for my parents.

What do you think of Henley's hospital verses?  They were to have  been dedicated to me, but
Stephen wouldn't allow it - said it would  be pretentious.

WEDNESDAY. - I meant to have made this quite a decent letter this  morning, but listen.  I
had pain all last night, and did not sleep  well, and now am cold and sickish, and strung up
ever and again  with another flash of pain.  Will you remember me to everybody?  My  principal
characteristics are cold, poverty, and Scots Law - three  very bad things.  Oo, how the rain
falls!  The mist is quite low on  the hill.  The birds are twittering to each other about the
indifferent season.  O, here's a gem for you.  An old godly woman  predicted the end of the
world, because the seasons were becoming  indistinguishable; my cousin Dora objected that last
winter had  been pretty well marked.  'Yes, my dear,' replied the  soothsayeress; 'but I think
you'll find the summer will be rather  coamplicated.' - Ever your faithful

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[EDINBURGH, SATURDAY, APRIL 1875.]

I AM getting on with my rehearsals, but I find the part very hard.   I rehearsed yesterday
from a quarter to seven, and to-day from four  (with interval for dinner) to eleven.  You see
the sad strait I am  in for ink. - A DEMAIN.

SUNDAY. - This is the third ink-bottle I have tried, and still it's  nothing to boast of. 
My journey went off all right, and I have  kept ever in good spirits.  Last night, indeed,
I did think my  little bit of gaiety was going away down the wind like a whiff of  tobacco
smoke, but to-day it has come back to me a little.  The  influence of this place is assuredly
all that can be worst against  one; MAIL IL FAUT LUTTER.  I was haunted last night when I was
in  bed by the most cold, desolate recollections of my past life here;  I was glad to try and
think of the forest, and warm my hands at the  thought of it.  O the quiet, grey thickets,
and the yellow  butterflies, and the woodpeckers, and the outlook over the plain as  it were
over a sea!  O for the good, fleshly stupidity of the  woods, the body conscious of itself
all over and the mind  forgotten, the clean air nestling next your skin as though your  clothes
were gossamer, the eye filled and content, the whole MAN  HAPPY!  Whereas here it takes a pull
to hold yourself together; it  needs both hands, and a book of stoical maxims, and a sort of
bitterness at the heart by way of armour. - Ever your faithful

R. L. S.

WEDNESDAY. - I am so played out with a cold in my eye that I cannot  see to write or read without
difficulty.  It is swollen HORRIBLE;  so how I shall look as Orsino, God knows!  I have my
fine clothes  tho'.  Henley's sonnets have been taken for the CORNHILL.  He is  out of hospital
now, and dressed, but still not too much to brag of  in health, poor fellow, I am afraid.

SUNDAY. - So.  I have still rather bad eyes, and a nasty sore  throat.  I play Orsino every
day, in all the pomp of Solomon,  splendid Francis the First clothes, heavy with gold and stage
jewellery.  I play it ill enough, I believe; but me and the  clothes, and the wedding wherewith
the clothes and me are  reconciled, produce every night a thrill of admiration.  Our cook 
told my mother (there is a servants' night, you know) that she and  the housemaid were 'just
prood to be able to say it was oor young  gentleman.'  To sup afterwards with these clothes
on, and a  wonderful lot of gaiety and Shakespearean jokes about the table, is  something to
live for.  It is so nice to feel you have been dead  three hundred years, and the sound of
your laughter is faint and  far off in the centuries. - Ever your faithful

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

WEDNESDAY. - A moment at last.  These last few days have been as  jolly as days could be, and
by good fortune I leave to-morrow for  Swanston, so that I shall not feel the whole fall back
to habitual  self.  The pride of life could scarce go further.  To live in  splendid clothes,
velvet and gold and fur, upon principally  champagne and lobster salad, with a company of people
nearly all of  whom are exceptionally good talkers; when your days began about  eleven and
ended about four - I have lost that sentence; I give it  up; it is very admirable sport, any
way.  Then both my afternoons  have been so pleasantly occupied - taking Henley drives.  I
had a  business to carry him down the long stair, and more of a business  to get him up again,
but while he was in the carriage it was  splendid.  It is now just the top of spring with us.
The whole  country is mad with green.  To see the cherry-blossom bitten out  upon the black
firs, and the black firs bitten out of the blue sky,  was a sight to set before a king.  You
may imagine what it was to a  man who has been eighteen months in an hospital ward.  The look
of  his face was a wine to me.

I shall send this off to-day to let you know of my new address -  Swanston Cottage, Lothianburn,
Edinburgh.  Salute the faithful in  my name.  Salute Priscilla, salute Barnabas, salute Ebenezer
- O  no, he's too much, I withdraw Ebenezer; enough of early Christians.  - Ever your faithful

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[EDINBURGH, JUNE 1875.]

SIMPLY a scratch.  All right, jolly, well, and through with the  difficulty.  My father pleased
about the Burns.  Never travel in  the same carriage with three able-bodied seamen and a fruiterer
from Kent; the A.-B.'s speak all night as though they were hailing  vessels at sea; and the
fruiterer as if he were crying fruit in a  noisy market-place - such, at least, is my FUNESTE
experience.  I  wonder if a fruiterer from some place else - say Worcestershire -  would offer
the same phenomena? insoluble doubt.

R. L. S.

Later. - Forgive me, couldn't get it off.  Awfully nice man here  to-night.  Public servant
- New Zealand.  Telling us all about the  South Sea Islands till I was sick with desire to
go there:   beautiful places, green for ever; perfect climate; perfect shapes  of men and women,
with red flowers in their hair; and nothing to do  but to study oratory and etiquette, sit
in the sun, and pick up the  fruits as they fall.  Navigator's Island is the place; absolute
balm for the weary. - Ever your faithful friend,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

SWANSTON.  END OF JUNE, 1875.

THURSDAY. - This day fortnight I shall fall or conquer.  Outside  the rain still soaks; but
now and again the hilltop looks through  the mist vaguely.  I am very comfortable, very sleepy,
and very  much satisfied with the arrangements of Providence.

SATURDAY - NO, SUNDAY, 12.45. - Just been - not grinding, alas! - I  couldn't - but doing a
bit of Fontainebleau.  I don't think I'll be  plucked.  I am not sure though - I am so busy,
what with this d-d  law, and this Fontainebleau always at my elbow, and three plays  (three,
think of that!) and a story, all crying out to me, 'Finish,  finish, make an entire end, make
us strong, shapely, viable  creatures!'  It's enough to put a man crazy.  Moreover, I have
my  thesis given out now, which is a fifth (is it fifth? I can't count)  incumbrance.

SUNDAY. - I've been to church, and am not depressed - a great step.   I was at that beautiful
church my PETIT POEME EN PROSE was about.   It is a little cruciform place, with heavy cornices
and string  course to match, and a steep slate roof.  The small kirkyard is  full of old grave-stones.
One of the nicest parts of it  was to see John Inglis, the greatest man in Scotland, our Justice-
General, and the only born lawyer I ever heard, listening to the  piping old body, as though
it had all been a revelation, grave and  respectful. - Ever your faithful

R. L. S.

CHAPTER III - ADVOCATE AND AUTHOR, EDINBURGH - PARIS -  FONTAINEBLEAU, JULY 1875-JULY 1879

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

[CHEZ SIRON, BARBIZON, SEINE ET MARNE, AUGUST 1875.]

MY DEAR MOTHER, - I have been three days at a place called Grez, a  pretty and very melancholy
village on the plain.  A low bridge of  many arches choked with sedge; great fields of white
and yellow  water-lilies; poplars and willows innumerable; and about it all  such an atmosphere
of sadness and slackness, one could do nothing  but get into the boat and out of it again,
and yawn for bedtime.

Yesterday Bob and I walked home; it came on a very creditable  thunderstorm; we were soon wet
through; sometimes the rain was so  heavy that one could only see by holding the hand over
the eyes;  and to crown all, we lost our way and wandered all over the place,  and into the
artillery range, among broken trees, with big shot  lying about among the rocks.  It was near
dinner-time when we got  to Barbizon; and it is supposed that we walked from twenty-three to
twenty-five miles, which is not bad for the Advocate, who is not  tired this morning.  I was
very glad to be back again in this dear  place, and smell the wet forest in the morning.

Simpson and the rest drove back in a carriage, and got about as wet  as we did.

Why don't you write? I HAVE been walking these last days from place to place; and  it does
make it hot for walking with a sack in this weather.  I am  burned in horrid patches of red;
my nose, I fear, is going to take  the lead in colour; Simpson is all flushed, as if he were
seen by a  sunset.  I send you here two rondeaux; I don't suppose they will  amuse anybody
but me; but this measure, short and yet intricate, is  just what I desire; and I have had some
good times walking along  the glaring roads, or down the poplar alley of the great canal, 
pitting my own humour to this old verse.

Far have you come, my lady, from the town, And far from all your sorrows, if you please, To
smell the good sea-winds and hear the seas, And in green meadows lay your body down.

To find your pale face grow from pale to brown, Your sad eyes growing brighter by degrees;
Far have you come, my lady, from the town, And far from all your sorrows, if you please.

Here in this seaboard land of old renown, In meadow grass go wading to the knees; Bathe your
whole soul a while in simple ease; There is no sorrow but the sea can drown; Far have you come,
my lady, from the town.

NOUS N'IRONS PLUS AU BOIS.

We'll walk the woods no more, But stay beside the fire, To weep for old desire And things that
are no more.

The woods are spoiled and hoar, The ways are full of mire; We'll walk the woods no more, But
stay beside the fire. We loved, in days of yore, Love, laughter, and the lyre. Ah God, but
death is dire, And death is at the door - We'll walk the woods no more.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

EDINBURGH, [AUTUMN] 1875.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Thanks for your letter and news.  No - my BURNS  is not done yet, it has
led me so far afield that I cannot finish  it; every time I think I see my way to an end, some
new game (or  perhaps wild goose) starts up, and away I go.  And then, again, to  be plain,
I shirk the work of the critical part, shirk it as a man  shirks a long jump.  It is awful
to have to express and  differentiate BURNS in a column or two.  O golly, I say, you know,
it CAN'T be done at the money.  All the more as I'm going write a  book about it.  RAMSAY,
FERGUSSON, AND BURNS:  AN ESSAY (or A  CRITICAL ESSAY? but then I'm going to give lives of
the three  gentlemen, only the gist of the book is the criticism) BY ROBERT  LOUIS STEVENSON,
ADVOCATE.  How's that for cut and dry?  And I  COULD write this book.  Unless I deceive myself,
I could even write  it pretty adequately.  I feel as if I was really in it, and knew  the game
thoroughly.  You see what comes of trying to write an  essay on BURNS in ten columns.

Meantime, when I have done Burns, I shall finish Charles of Orleans  (who is in a good way,
about the fifth month, I should think, and  promises to be a fine healthy child, better than
any of his elder  brothers for a while); and then perhaps a Villon, for Villon is a  very essential
part of my RAMSAY-FERGUSSON-BURNS; I mean, is a note  in it, and will recur again and again
for comparison and  illustration; then, perhaps, I may try Fontainebleau, by the way.   But
so soon as Charles of Orleans is polished off, and immortalised  for ever, he and his pipings,
in a solid imperishable shrine of R.  L. S., my true aim and end will be this little book.
Suppose I  could jerk you out 100 Cornhill pages; that would easy make 200  pages of decent
form; and then thickish paper - eh? would that do?   I dare say it could be made bigger; but
I know what 100 pages of  copy, bright consummate copy, imply behind the scenes of weary  manuscribing;
I think if I put another nothing to it, I should not  be outside the mark; and 100 Cornhill
pages of 500 words means, I  fancy (but I never was good at figures), means 500,00 words. 
There's a prospect for an idle young gentleman who lives at home at  ease!  The future is thick
with inky fingers.  And then perhaps  nobody would publish.  AH NOM DE DIEU!  What do you think
of all  this? will it paddle, think you?

I hope this pen will write; it is the third I have tried.

About coming up, no, that's impossible; for I am worse than a  bankrupt.  I have at the present
six shillings and a penny; I have  a sounding lot of bills for Christmas; new dress suit, for
instance, the old one having gone for Parliament House; and new  white shirts to live up to
my new profession; I'm as gay and swell  and gummy as can be; only all my boots leak; one pair
water, and  the other two simple black mud; so that my rig is more for the eye,  than a very
solid comfort to myself.  That is my budget.  Dismal  enough, and no prospect of any coin coming
in; at least for months.   So that here I am, I almost fear, for the winter; certainly till
after Christmas, and then it depends on how my bills 'turn out'  whether it shall not be till
spring.  So, meantime, I must whistle  in my cage.  My cage is better by one thing; I am an
Advocate now.   If you ask me why that makes it better, I would remind you that in  the most
distressing circumstances a little consequence goes a long  way, and even bereaved relatives
stand on precedence round the  coffin.  I idle finely.  I read Boswell's LIFE OF JOHNSON, Martin's
HISTORY OF FRANCE, ALLAN RAMSAY, OLIVIER BOSSELIN, all sorts of  rubbish, APROPOS of BURNS,
COMMINES, JUVENAL DES URSINS, etc.  I  walk about the Parliament House five forenoons a week,
in wig and  gown; I have either a five or six mile walk, or an hour or two hard  skating on
the rink, every afternoon, without fail.

I have not written much; but, like the seaman's parrot in the tale,  I have thought a deal.
You have never, by the way, returned me  either SPRING or BERANGER, which is certainly a d-d
shame.  I  always comforted myself with that when my conscience pricked me  about a letter
to you.  'Thus conscience' - O no, that's not  appropriate in this connection. - Ever yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

I say, is there any chance of your coming north this year?  Mind  you that promise is now more
respectable for age than is becoming.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

[EDINBURGH, OCTOBER 1875.]

NOO lyart leaves blaw ower the green, Red are the bonny woods o' Dean, An' here we're back
in Embro, freen', To pass the winter. Whilk noo, wi' frosts afore, draws in, An' snaws ahint her.

I've seen's hae days to fricht us a', The Pentlands poothered weel wi' snaw, The ways half-smoored
wi' liquid thaw, An' half-congealin', The snell an' scowtherin' norther blaw Frae blae Brunteelan'.

I've seen's been unco sweir to sally, And at the door-cheeks daff an' dally, Seen's daidle
thus an' shilly-shally For near a minute - Sae cauld the wind blew up the valley, The deil
was in it! -

Syne spread the silk an' tak the gate, In blast an' blaudin' rain, deil hae't! The hale toon
glintin', stane an' slate, Wi' cauld an' weet, An' to the Court, gin we'se be late, Bicker
oor feet.

And at the Court, tae, aft I saw Whaur Advocates by twa an' twa Gang gesterin' end to end the
ha' In weeg an' goon, To crack o' what ye wull but Law The hale forenoon.

That muckle ha,' maist like a kirk, I've kent at braid mid-day sae mirk Ye'd seen white weegs
an' faces lurk Like ghaists frae Hell, But whether Christian ghaist or Turk Deil ane could tell.

The three fires lunted in the gloom, The wind blew like the blast o' doom, The rain upo' the
roof abune Played Peter Dick - Ye wad nae'd licht enough i' the room Your teeth to pick!

But, freend, ye ken how me an' you, The ling-lang lanely winter through, Keep'd a guid speerit
up, an' true To lore Horatian, We aye the ither bottle drew To inclination.

Sae let us in the comin' days Stand sicker on our auncient ways - The strauchtest road in a'
the maze Since Eve ate apples; An' let the winter weet our cla'es - We'll weet oor thrapples.
Angry with you?  No.   Is the thing lost?  Well, so be it.  There is one masterpiece fewer
in the world.  The world can ill spare it, but I, sir, I (and here  I strike my hollow boson,
so that it resounds) I am full of this  sort of bauble; I am made of it; it comes to me, sir,
as the desire  to sneeze comes upon poor ordinary devils on cold days, when they  should be
getting out of bed and into their horrid cold tubs by the  light of a seven o'clock candle,
with the dismal seven o'clock  frost-flowers all over the window.

Show Stephen what you please; if you could show him how to give me  money, you would oblige,
sincerely yours,

R. L. S.

I have a scroll of SPRINGTIME somewhere, but I know that it is not  in very good order, and
do not feel myself up to very much grind  over it.  I am damped about SPRINGTIME, that's the
truth of it.  It  might have been four or five quid!

Sir, I shall shave my head, if this goes on.  All men take a  pleasure to gird at me.  The
laws of nature are in open war with  me.  The wheel of a dog-cart took the toes off my new
boots.  Gout  has set in with extreme rigour, and cut me out of the cheap  refreshment of beer.
I leant my back against an oak, I thought it  was a trusty tree, but first it bent, and syne
- it lost the Spirit  of Springtime, and so did Professor Sidney Colvin, Trinity College, 
to me. - Ever yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Along with this, I send you some P.P.P's; if you lose them, you  need not seek to look upon
my face again.  Do, for God's sake,  answer me about them also; it is a horrid thing for a
fond  architect to find his monuments received in silence. - Yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[EDINBURGH, NOVEMBER 12, 1875.]

MY DEAR FRIEND, - Since I got your letter I have been able to do a  little more work, and I
have been much better contented with  myself; but I can't get away, that is absolutely prevented
by the  state of my purse and my debts, which, I may say, are red like  crimson.  I don't know
how I am to clear my hands of them, nor  when, not before Christmas anyway.  Yesterday I was
twenty-five; so  please wish me many happy returns - directly.  This one was not  UNhappy anyway.
I have got back a good deal into my old random,  little-thought way of life, and do not care
whether I read, write,  speak, or walk, so long as I do something.  I have a great delight
in this wheel-skating; I have made great advance in it of late, can  do a good many amusing
things (I mean amusing in MY sense - amusing  to do).  You know, I lose all my forenoons at
Court!  So it is, but  the time passes; it is a great pleasure to sit and hear cases  argued
or advised.  This is quite autobiographical, but I feel as  if it was some time since we met,
and I can tell you, I am glad to  meet you again.  In every way, you see, but that of work
the world  goes well with me.  My health is better than ever it was before; I  get on without
any jar, nay, as if there never had been a jar, with  my parents.  If it weren't about that
work, I'd be happy.  But the  fact is, I don't think - the fact is, I'm going to trust in 
Providence about work.  If I could get one or two pieces I hate out  of my way all would be
well, I think; but these obstacles disgust  me, and as I know I ought to do them first, I don't
do anything.  I  must finish this off, or I'll just lose another day.  I'll try to  write again
soon. - Ever your faithful friend,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. DE MATTOS

EDINBURGH, JANUARY 1876.

MY DEAR KATHARINE, - The prisoner reserved his defence.  He has  been seedy, however; principally
sick of the family evil,  despondency; the sun is gone out utterly; and the breath of the 
people of this city lies about as a sort of damp, unwholesome fog,  in which we go walking
with bowed hearts.  If I understand what is  a contrite spirit, I have one; it is to feel that
you are a small  jar, or rather, as I feel myself, a very large jar, of pottery work  rather
MAL REUSSI, and to make every allowance for the potter (I  beg pardon; Potter with a capital
P.) on his ill-success, and  rather wish he would reduce you as soon as possible to potsherds.
However, there are many things to do yet before we go

GROSSIR LA PATE UNIVERSELLE FAITE DES FORMES QUE DIEU FOND.

For instance, I have never been in a revolution yet.  I pray God I  may be in one at the end,
if I am to make a mucker.  The best way  to make a mucker is to have your back set against
a wall and a few  lead pellets whiffed into you in a moment, while yet you are all in  a heat
and a fury of combat, with drums sounding on all sides, and  people crying, and a general smash
like the infernal orchestration  at the end of the HUGUENOTS. . . .

Please pardon me for having been so long of writing, and show your  pardon by writing soon
to me; it will be a kindness, for I am  sometimes very dull.  Edinburgh is much changed for
the worse by  the absence of Bob; and this damned weather weighs on me like a  curse.  Yesterday,
or the day before, there came so black a rain  squall that I was frightened - what a child
would call frightened,  you know, for want of a better word - although in reality it has  nothing
to do with fright.  I lit the gas and sat cowering in my  chair until it went away again. -
Ever yours,

R. L. S.

O I am trying my hand at a novel just now; it may interest you to  know, I am bound to say
I do not think it will be a success.   However, it's an amusement for the moment, and work,
work is your  only ally against the 'bearded people' that squat upon their hams  in the dark
places of life and embrace people horribly as they go  by.  God save us from the bearded people!
to think that the sun is  still shining in some happy places!

R. L S.

Letter:  TO MRS SITWELL

[EDINBURGH, JANUARY 1876.]

. . . OUR weather continues as it was, bitterly cold, and raining  often.  There is not much
pleasure in life certainly as it stands  at present.  NOUS N'IRONS PLUS AU BOSS, HELAS!

I meant to write some more last night, but my father was ill and it  put it out of my way.
He is better this morning.

If I had written last night, I should have written a lot.  But this  morning I am so dreadfully
tired and stupid that I can say nothing.   I was down at Leith in the afternoon.  God bless
me, what horrid  women I saw; I never knew what a plain-looking race it was before.   I was
sick at heart with the looks of them.  And the children,  filthy and ragged!  And the smells!
And the fat black mud!

My soul was full of disgust ere I got back.  And yet the ships were  beautiful to see, as they
are always; and on the pier there was a  clean cold wind that smelt a little of the sea, though
it came down  the Firth, and the sunset had a certain ECLAT and warmth.  Perhaps  if I could
get more work done, I should be in a better trim to  enjoy filthy streets and people and cold
grim weather; but I don't  much feel as if it was what I would have chosen.  I am tempted 
every day of my life to go off on another walking tour.  I have sent 'Fontainebleau' long ago,
long  ago.  And Leslie Stephen is worse than tepid about it - liked 'some  parts' of it 'very
well,' the son of Belial.  Moreover, he proposes  to shorten it; and I, who want MONEY, and
money soon, and not glory  and the illustration of the English language, I feel as if my  poverty
were going to consent.

2ND.  I'm as fit as a fiddle after my walk.  I am four inches  bigger about the waist than
last July!  There, that's your prophecy  did that.  I am on 'Charles of Orleans' now, but I
don't know where  to send him.  Stephen obviously spews me out of his mouth, and I  spew him
out of mine, so help me!  A man who doesn't like my  'Fontainebleau'!  His head must be turned.

3RD.  If ever you do come across my 'Spring' (I beg your pardon for  referring to it again,
but I don't want you to forget) send it off  at once.

4TH.  I went to Ayr, Maybole, Girvan, Ballantrae, Stranraer,  Glenluce, and Wigton.  I shall
make an article of it some day soon,  'A Winter's Walk in Carrick and Galloway.'  I had a good
time. -  Yours,

R. L S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[SWANSTON COTTAGE, LOTHIANBURN, JULY 1876.]

HERE I am, here, and very well too.  I am glad you liked 'Walking  Tours'; I like it, too;
I think it's prose; and I own with  contrition that I have not always written prose.  However,
I am  'endeavouring after new obedience' (Scot. Shorter Catechism).  You  don't say aught of
'Forest Notes,' which is kind.  There is one, if  you will, that was too sweet to be wholesome.

I am at 'Charles d'Orleans.'  About fifteen CORNHILL pages have  already coule'd from under
my facile plume - no, I mean eleven,  fifteen of MS. - and we are not much more than half-way
through,  'Charles' and I; but he's a pleasant companion.  My health is very  well; I am in
a fine exercisy state.  Baynes is gone to London; if  you see him, inquire about my 'Burns.'
They have sent me 5 pounds,  5s, for it, which has mollified me horrid.  5 pounds, 5s. is a
good  deal to pay for a read of it in MS.; I can't complain. - Yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[SWANSTON COTTAGE, LOTHIANBURN, JULY 1876.]

. . . I HAVE the strangest repugnance for writing; indeed, I have  nearly got myself persuaded
into the notion that letters don't  arrive, in order to salve my conscience for never sending
them off.   I'm reading a great deal of fifteenth century:  TRIAL OF JOAN OF  ARC, PASTON LETTERS,
BASIN, etc., also BOSWELL daily by way of a  Bible; I mean to read BOSWELL now until the day
I die.  And now and  again a bit of PILGRIM'S PROGRESS.  Is that all?  Yes, I think  that's
all.  I have a thing in proof for the CORNHILL called  VIRGINIBUS PUERISQUE.  'Charles of Orleans'
is again laid aside,  but in a good state of furtherance this time.  A paper called 'A  Defence
of Idlers' (which is really a defence of R. L. S.) is in a  good way.  So, you see, I am busy
in a tumultuous, knotless sort of  fashion; and as I say, I take lots of exercise, and I'm
as brown a  berry.

This is the first letter I've written for - O I don't know how  long.

JULY 30TH. - This is, I suppose, three weeks after I began.  Do,  please, forgive me.

To the Highlands, first, to the Jenkins', then to Antwerp; thence,  by canoe with Simpson,
to Paris and Grez (on the Loing, and an old  acquaintance of mine on the skirts of Fontainebleau)
to complete  our cruise next spring (if we're all alive and jolly) by Loing and  Loire, Saone
and Rhone to the Mediterranean.  It should make a  jolly book of gossip, I imagine.

God bless you.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - VIRGINIBUS PUERISQUE is in August CORNHILL.  'Charles of  Orleans' is finished, and
sent to Stephen; 'Idlers' ditto, and sent  to Grove; but I've no word of either.  So I've not
been idle.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

CHAUNY, AISNE [SEPTEMBER 1876].

MY DEAR HENLEY, - Here I am, you see; and if you will take to a  map, you will observe I am
already more than two doors from  Antwerp, whence I started.  I have fought it through under
the  worst weather I ever saw in France; I have been wet through nearly  every day of travel
since the second (inclusive); besides this, I  have had to fight against pretty mouldy health;
so that, on the  whole, the essayist and reviewer has shown, I think, some pluck.   Four days
ago I was not a hundred miles from being miserably  drowned, to the immense regret of a large
circle of friends and the  permanent impoverishment of British Essayism and Reviewery.  My
boat culbutted me under a fallen tree in a very rapid current; and  I was a good while before
I got on to the outside of that fallen  tree; rather a better while than I cared about.  When
I got up, I  lay some time on my belly, panting, and exuded fluid.  All my  symptoms JUSQU'
ICI are trifling.  But I've a damned sore throat. -  Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

17 HERIOT ROW, EDINBURGH, MAY 1877.

. . . A PERFECT chorus of repudiation is sounding in my ears; and  although you say nothing,
I know you must be repudiating me, all  the same.  Write I cannot - there's no good mincing
matters, a  letter frightens me worse than the devil; and I am just as unfit  for correspondence
as if I had never learned the three R.'s.

Let me give my news quickly before I relapse into my usual  idleness.  I have a terror lest
I should relapse before I get this  finished.  Courage, R. L. S.!  On Leslie Stephen's advice,
I gave  up the idea of a book of essays.  He said he didn't imagine I was  rich enough for
such an amusement; and moreover, whatever was worth  publication was worth republication. 
So the best of those I had  ready:  'An Apology for Idlers' is in proof for the CORNHILL. 
I  have 'Villon' to do for the same magazine, but God knows when I'll  get it done, for drums,
trumpets - I'm engaged upon - trumpets,  drums - a novel!  'THE HAIR TRUNK; OR, THE IDEAL COMMONWEALTH.'
It  is a most absurd story of a lot of young Cambridge fellows who are  going to found a new
society, with no ideas on the subject, and  nothing but Bohemian tastes in the place of ideas;
and who are -  well, I can't explain about the trunk - it would take too long -  but the trunk
is the fun of it - everybody steals it; burglary,  marine fight, life on desert island on west
coast of Scotland,  sloops, etc.  The first scene where they make their grand schemes  and
get drunk is supposed to be very funny, by Henley.  I really  saw him laugh over it until he
cried.   I am well, but somewhat tired out with overwork.  I have only been  home a fortnight
this morning, and I have already written to the  tune of forty-five CORNHILL pages and upwards.
The most of it was  only very laborious re-casting and re-modelling, it is true; but it  took
it out of me famously, all the same.

TEMPLE BAR appears to like my 'Villon,' so I may count on another  market there in the future,
I hope.  At least, I am going to put it  to the proof at once, and send another story, 'The
Sire de  Maletroit's Mousetrap':  a true novel, in the old sense; all  unities preserved moreover,
if that's anything, and I believe with  some little merits; not so CLEVER perhaps as the last,
but sounder  and more natural.

My 'Villon' is out this month; I should so much like to know what  you think of it.  Stephen
has written to me apropos of 'Idlers,'  that something more in that vein would be agreeable
to his views.   From Stephen I count that a devil of a lot.

I am honestly so tired this morning that I hope you will take this  for what it's worth and
give me an answer in peace. - Ever yours,

LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

[PENZANCE, AUGUST 1877.]

. . . YOU will do well to stick to your burn, that is a delightful  life you sketch, and a
very fountain of health.  I wish I could  live like that but, alas! it is just as well I got
my 'Idlers'  written and done with, for I have quite lost all power of resting.   I have a
goad in my flesh continually, pushing me to work, work,  work.  I have an essay pretty well
through for Stephen; a story,  'The Sire de Maletroit's Mousetrap,' with which I shall try
TEMPLE  BAR; another story, in the clouds, 'The Stepfather's Story,' most  pathetic work of
a high morality or immorality, according to point  of view; and lastly, also in the clouds,
or perhaps a little  farther away, an essay on the 'Two St. Michael's Mounts,'  historical
and picturesque; perhaps if it didn't come too long, I  might throw in the 'Bass Rock,' and
call it 'Three Sea Fortalices,'  or something of that kind.  You see how work keeps bubbling
in my  mind.  Then I shall do another fifteenth century paper this autumn  - La Sale and PETIT
JEHAN DE SAINTRE, which is a kind of fifteenth  century SANDFORD AND MERTON, ending in horrid
immoral cynicism, as  if the author had got tired of being didactic, and just had a good  wallow
in the mire to wind up with and indemnify himself for so  much restraint.

Cornwall is not much to my taste, being as bleak as the bleakest  parts of Scotland, and nothing
like so pointed and characteristic.   It has a flavour of its own, though, which I may try
and catch, if  I find the space, in the proposed article.  'Will o' the Mill' I  sent, red
hot, to Stephen in a fit of haste, and have not yet had  an answer.  I am quite prepared for
a refusal.  But I begin to have  more hope in the story line, and that should improve my income
anyway.  I am glad you liked 'Villon'; some of it was not as good  as it ought to be, but on
the whole it seems pretty vivid, and the  features strongly marked.  Vividness and not style
is now my line;  style is all very well, but vividness is the real line of country;  if a thing
is meant to be read, it seems just as well to try and  make it readable.  I am such a dull
person I cannot keep off my own  immortal works.  Indeed, they are scarcely ever out of my
head.   And yet I value them less and less every day.  But occupation is  the great thing;
so that a man should have his life in his own  pocket, and never be thrown out of work by anything.
I am glad to  hear you are better.  I must stop - going to Land's End. - Always  your faithful
friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO A. PATCHETT MARTIN

[1877.]

DEAR SIR, - It would not be very easy for me to give you any idea  of the pleasure I found
in your present.  People who write for the  magazines (probably from a guilty conscience) are
apt to suppose  their works practically unpublished.  It seems unlikely that any  one would
take the trouble to read a little paper buried among so  many others; and reading it, read
it with any attention or  pleasure.  And so, I can assure you, your little book, coming from
so far, gave me all the pleasure and encouragement in the world.

I suppose you know and remember Charles Lamb's essay on distant  correspondents?  Well, I was
somewhat of his way of thinking about  my mild productions.  I did not indeed imagine they
were read, and  (I suppose I may say) enjoyed right round upon the other side of  the big Football
we have the honour to inhabit.  And as your  present was the first sign to the contrary, I
feel I have been very  ungrateful in not writing earlier to acknowledge the receipt.  I  dare
say, however, you hate writing letters as much as I can do  myself (for if you like my article,
I may presume other points of  sympathy between us); and on this hypothesis you will be ready
to  forgive me the delay.

I may mention with regard to the piece of verses called 'Such is  Life,' that I am not the
only one on this side of the Football  aforesaid to think it a good and bright piece of work,
and  recognised a link of sympathy with the poets who 'play in  hostelries at euchre.' - Believe
me, dear sir, yours truly,

R. L S.

Letter:  TO A. PATCHETT MARTIN

17 HERIOT ROW, EDINBURGH [DECEMBER 1877].

MY DEAR SIR, - I am afraid you must already have condemned me for a  very idle fellow truly.
Here it is more than two months since I  received your letter; I had no fewer than three journals
to  acknowledge; and never a sign upon my part.  If you have seen a  CORNHILL paper of mine
upon idling, you will be inclined to set it  all down to that.  But you will not be doing me
justice.  Indeed, I  have had a summer so troubled that I have had little leisure and  still
less inclination to write letters.  I was keeping the devil  at bay with all my disposable
activities; and more than once I  thought he had me by the throat.  The odd conditions of our
acquaintance enable me to say more to you than I would to a person  who lived at my elbow.
And besides, I am too much pleased and  flattered at our correspondence not to go as far as
I can to set  myself right in your eyes.

In this damnable confusion (I beg pardon) I have lost all my  possessions, or near about, and
quite lost all my wits.  I wish I  could lay my hands on the numbers of the REVIEW, for I know
I  wished to say something on that head more particularly than I can  from memory; but where
they have escaped to, only time or chance  can show.  However, I can tell you so far, that
I was very much  pleased with the article on Bret Harte; it seemed to me just,  clear, and
to the point.  I agreed pretty well with all you said  about George Eliot:  a high, but, may
we not add? - a rather dry  lady.  Did you - I forget - did you have a kick at the stern works
of that melancholy puppy and humbug Daniel Deronda himself? - the  Prince of prigs; the literary
abomination of desolation in the way  of manhood; a type which is enough to make a man forswear
the love  of women, if that is how it must be gained. . . . Hats off all the  same, you understand:
a woman of genius.

Of your poems I have myself a kindness for 'Noll and Nell,'  although I don't think you have
made it as good as you ought:   verse five is surely not QUITE MELODIOUS.  I confess I like
the  Sonnet in the last number of the REVIEW - the Sonnet to England.

Please, if you have not, and I don't suppose you have, already read  it, institute a search
in all Melbourne for one of the rarest and  certainly one of the best of books - CLARISSA HARLOWE.
For any man  who takes an interest in the problems of the two sexes, that book  is a perfect
mine of documents.  And it is written, sir, with the  pen of an angel.  Miss Howe and Lovelace,
words cannot tell how  good they are!  And the scene where Clarissa beards her family,  with
her fan going all the while; and some of the quarrel scenes  between her and Lovelace; and
the scene where Colonel Marden goes  to Mr. Hall, with Lord M. trying to compose matters, and
the  Colonel with his eternal 'finest woman in the world,' and the  inimitable affirmation
of Mowbray - nothing, nothing could be  better!  You will bless me when you read it for this
recommendation; but, indeed, I can do nothing but recommend  Clarissa.  I am like that Frenchman
of the eighteenth century who  discovered Habakkuk, and would give no one peace about that
respectable Hebrew.  For my part, I never was able to get over his  eminently respectable name;
Isaiah is the boy, if you must have a  prophet, no less.  About Clarissa, I meditate a choice
work:  A  DIALOGUE ON MAN, WOMAN, AND 'CLARISSA HARLOWE.'  It is to be so  clever that no array
of terms can give you any idea; and very  likely that particular array in which I shall finally
embody it,  less than any other.

Do you know, my dear sir, what I like best in your letter?  The  egotism for which you thought
necessary to apologise.  I am a rogue  at egotism myself; and to be plain, I have rarely or
never liked  any man who was not.  The first step to discovering the beauties of  God's universe
is usually a (perhaps partial) apprehension of such  of them as adorn our own characters. 
When I see a man who does not  think pretty well of himself, I always suspect him of being
in the  right.  And besides, if he does not like himself, whom he has seen,  how is he ever
to like one whom he never can see but in dim and  artificial presentments?

I cordially reciprocate your offer of a welcome; it shall be at  least a warm one.  Are you
not my first, my only, admirer - a dear  tie?  Besides, you are a man of sense, and you treat
me as one by  writing to me as you do, and that gives me pleasure also.  Please  continue to
let me see your work.  I have one or two things coming  out in the CORNHILL:  a story called
'The Sire de Maletroit's Door'  in TEMPLE BAR; and a series of articles on Edinburgh in the
PORTFOLIO; but I don't know if these last fly all the way to  Melbourne. - Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

HOTEL DES ETRANGERS, DIEPPE, JANUARY 1, 1878.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I am at the INLAND VOYAGE again:  have finished  another section, and have
only two more to execute.  But one at  least of these will be very long - the longest in the
book - being  a great digression on French artistic tramps.  I only hope Paul may  take the
thing; I want coin so badly, and besides it would be  something done - something put outside
of me and off my conscience;  and I should not feel such a muff as I do, if once I saw the
thing  in boards with a ticket on its back.  I think I shall frequent  circulating libraries
a good deal.  The Preface shall stand over,  as you suggest, until the last, and then, sir,
we shall see.  This  to be read with a big voice.

This is New Year's Day:  let me, my dear Colvin, wish you a very  good year, free of all misunderstanding
and bereavement, and full  of good weather and good work.  You know best what you have done
for me, and so you will know best how heartily I mean this. - Ever  yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[PARIS, JANUARY OR FEBRUARY 1878.]

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Many thanks for your letter.  I was much  interested by all the Edinburgh
gossip.  Most likely I shall arrive  in London next week.  I think you know all about the Crane
sketch;  but it should be a river, not a canal, you know, and the look  should be 'cruel, lewd,
and kindly,' all at once.  There is more  sense in that Greek myth of Pan than in any other
that I recollect  except the luminous Hebrew one of the Fall:  one of the biggest  things done.
If people would remember that all religions are no  more than representations of life, they
would find them, as they  are, the best representations, licking Shakespeare.

What an inconceivable cheese is Alfred de Musset!  His comedies  are, to my view, the best
work of France this century:  a large  order.  Did you ever read them?  They are real, clear,
living work.  - Ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

PARIS, 44 BD. HAUSSMANN, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1878.

MY DEAR PEOPLE, - Do you know who is my favourite author just now?   How are the mighty fallen!
Anthony Trollope.  I batten on him; he  is so nearly wearying you, and yet he never does; or
rather, he  never does, until he gets near the end, when he begins to wean you  from him, so
that you're as pleased to be done with him as you  thought you would be sorry.  I wonder if
it's old age?  It is a  little, I am sure.  A young person would get sickened by the dead 
level of meanness and cowardliness; you require to be a little  spoiled and cynical before
you can enjoy it.  I have just finished  the WAY OF THE WORLD; there is only one person in
it - no, there  are three - who are nice:  the wild American woman, and two of the  dissipated
young men, Dolly and Lord Nidderdale.  All the heroes  and heroines are just ghastly.  But
what a triumph is Lady Carbury!   That is real, sound, strong, genuine work:  the man who could
do  that, if he had had courage, might have written a fine book; he has  preferred to write
many readable ones.  I meant to write such a  long, nice letter, but I cannot hold the pen.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

HOTEL DU VAL DE GRACE, RUE ST. JACQUES, PARIS, SUNDAY [JUNE 1878].

MY DEAR MOTHER, - About criticisms, I was more surprised at the  tone of the critics than I
suppose any one else.  And the effect it  has produced in me is one of shame.  If they liked
that so much, I  ought to have given them something better, that's all.  And I shall  try to
do so.  Still, it strikes me as odd; and I don't understand  the vogue.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - You must not expect to hear much from me for the  next two weeks; for I am
near starting.  Donkey purchased - a love  - price, 65 francs and a glass of brandy.  My route
is all pretty  well laid out; I shall go near no town till I get to Alais.   Remember, Poste
Restante, Alais, Gard.  Greyfriars will be in  October.  You did not say whether you liked
September; you might  tell me that at Alais.  The other No.'s of Edinburgh are:   Parliament
Close, Villa Quarters (which perhaps may not appear),  Calton Hill, Winter and New Year, and
to the Pentland Hills.  'Tis  a kind of book nobody would ever care to read; but none of the
young men could have done it better than I have, which is always a  consolation.  I read INLAND
VOYAGE the other day:  what rubbish  these reviewers did talk!  It is not badly written, thin,
mildly  cheery, and strained.  SELON MOI.  I mean to visit Hamerton on my  return journey;
otherwise, I should come by sea from Marseilles.  I  am very well known here now; indeed, quite
a feature of the place.  - Your affectionate son,

R. L. S.

The Engineer is the Conductor of Roads and Bridges; then I have the  Receiver of Registrations,
the First Clerk of Excise, and the  Perceiver of the Impost.  That is our dinner party.  I
am a sort of  hovering government official, as you see.  But away - away from  these great
companions!

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[MONASTIER, SEPTEMBER 1878.]

DEAR HENLEY, - I hope to leave Monastier this day (Saturday) week;  thenceforward Poste Restante,
Alais, Gard, is my address.  'Travels  with a Donkey in the French Highlands.'  I am no good
to-day.  I  cannot work, nor even write letters.  A colossal breakfast  yesterday at Puy has,
I think, done for me for ever; I certainly  ate more than ever I ate before in my life - a
big slice of melon,  some ham and jelly, A FILET, a helping of gudgeons, the breast and  leg
of a partridge, some green peas, eight crayfish, some Mont d'Or  cheese, a peach, and a handful
of biscuits, macaroons, and things.   It sounds Gargantuan; it cost three francs a head.  So
that it was  inexpensive to the pocket, although I fear it may prove extravagant  to the fleshly
tabernacle.  I can't think how I did it or why.  It  is a new form of excess for me; but I
think it pays less than any  of them.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

MONASTIER, AT MOREL'S [SEPTEMBER 1878].

Lud knows about date, VIDE postmark.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - Yours (with enclosures) of the 16th to hand.   All work done.  I go to Le
Puy to-morrow to dispatch baggage, get  cash, stand lunch to engineer, who has been very jolly
and useful  to me, and hope by five o'clock on Saturday morning to be driving  Modestine towards
the Gevaudan.  Modestine is my anesse; a darling,  mouse-colour, about the size of a Newfoundland
dog (bigger, between  you and me), the colour of a mouse, costing 65 francs and a glass  of
brandy.  Glad you sent on all the coin; was half afraid I might  come to a stick in the mountains,
donkey and all, which would have  been the devil.  Have finished ARABIAN NIGHTS and Edinburgh
book,  and am a free man.  Next address, Poste Restante, Alais, Gard.   Give my servilities
to the family.  Health bad; spirits, I think,  looking up. - Ever yours,

R. L S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

OCTOBER 1878.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - I have seen Hamerton; he was very kind, all his  family seemed pleased to
see an INLAND VOYAGE, and the book seemed  to be quite a household word with them.  P. G. himself
promised to  help me in my bargains with publishers, which, said he, and I doubt  not very
truthfully, he could manage to much greater advantage than  I.  He is also to read an INLAND
VOYAGE over again, and send me his  cuts and cuffs in private, after having liberally administered
his  kisses CORAM PUBLICO.  I liked him very much.  Of all the pleasant  parts of my profession,
I think the spirit of other men of letters  makes the pleasantest.

Do you know, your sunset was very good?  The 'attack' (to speak  learnedly) was so plucky and
odd.  I have thought of it repeatedly  since.  I have just made a delightful dinner by myself
in the Cafe  Felix, where I am an old established beggar, and am just smoking a  cigar over
my coffee.  I came last night from Autun, and I am  muddled about my plans.  The world is such
a dance! - Ever your  affectionate son,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, AUTUMN 1878.]

MY DEAR HENLEY, - Here I am living like a fighting-cock, and have  not spoken to a real person
for about sixty hours.  Those who wait  on me are not real.  The man I know to be a myth, because
I have  seen him acting so often in the Palais Royal.  He plays the Duke in  TRICOCHE ET CACOLET;
I knew his nose at once.  The part he plays  here is very dull for him, but conscientious.
As for the bedmaker,  she's a dream, a kind of cheerful, innocent nightmare; I never saw  so
poor an imitation of humanity.  I cannot work - CANNOT.  Even  the GUITAR is still undone;
I can only write ditch-water.  'Tis  ghastly; but I am quite cheerful, and that is more important.
Do  you think you could prepare the printers for a possible breakdown  this week?  I shall
try all I know on Monday; but if I can get  nothing better than I got this morning, I prefer
to drop a week.   Telegraph to me if you think it necessary.  I shall not leave till  Wednesday
at soonest.  Shall write again.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

[17 HERIOT ROW, EDINBURGH, APRIL 16, 1879].  POOL OF SILOAM, By EL  DORADO, DELECTABLE MOUNTAINS,
ARCADIA

MY DEAR GOSSE, - Herewith of the dibbs - a homely fiver.  How, and  why, do you continue to
exist?  I do so ill, but for a variety of  reasons.  First, I wait an angel to come down and
trouble the  waters; second, more angels; third - well, more angels.  The waters  are sluggish;
the angels - well, the angels won't come, that's  about all.  But I sit waiting and waiting,
and people bring me  meals, which help to pass time (I'm sure it's very kind of them),  and
sometimes I whistle to myself; and as there's a very pretty  echo at my pool of Siloam, the
thing's agreeable to hear.  The sun  continues to rise every day, to my growing wonder.  'The
moon by  night thee shall not smite.'  And the stars are all doing as well  as can be expected.
The air of Arcady is very brisk and pure, and  we command many enchanting prospects in space
and time.  I do not  yet know much about my situation; for, to tell the truth, I only  came
here by the run since I began to write this letter; I had to  go back to date it; and I am
grateful to you for having been the  occasion of this little outing.  What good travellers
we are, if we  had only faith; no man need stay in Edinburgh but by unbelief; my  religious
organ has been ailing for a while past, and I have lain a  great deal in Edinburgh, a sheer
hulk in consequence.  But I got  out my wings, and have taken a change of air.

I read your book with great interest, and ought long ago to have  told you so.  An ordinary
man would say that he had been waiting  till he could pay his debts. . . . The book is good
reading.  Your  personal notes of those you saw struck me as perhaps most sharp and  'best
held.'  See as many people as you can, and make a book of  them before you die.  That will
be a living book, upon my word.   You have the touch required.  I ask you to put hands to it
in  private already.  Think of what Carlyle's caricature of old  Coleridge is to us who never
saw S. T. C.  With that and Kubla  Khan, we have the man in the fact.  Carlyle's picture, of
course,  is not of the author of KUBLA, but of the author of that surprising  FRIEND which
has knocked the breath out of two generations of  hopeful youth.  Your portraits would be milder,
sweeter, more true  perhaps, and perhaps not so truth-TELLING - if you will take my  meaning.

I have to thank you for an introduction to that beautiful - no,  that's not the word - that
jolly, with an Arcadian jollity - thing  of Vogelweide's.  Also for your preface.  Some day
I want to read a  whole book in the same picked dialect as that preface.  I think it  must
be one E. W. Gosse who must write it.  He has got himself into  a fix with me by writing the
preface; I look for a great deal, and  will not be easily pleased.

I never thought of it, but my new book, which should soon be out,  contains a visit to a murder
scene, but not done as we should like  to see them, for, of course, I was running another hare.

If you do not answer this in four pages, I shall stop the enclosed  fiver at the bank, a step
which will lead to your incarceration for  life.  As my visits to Arcady are somewhat uncertain,
you had  better address 17 Heriot Row, Edinburgh, as usual.  I shall walk  over for the note
if I am not yet home. - Believe me, very really  yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

I charge extra for a flourish when it is successful; this isn't, so  you have it gratis.  Is
there any news in Babylon the Great?  My  fellow-creatures are electing school boards here
in the midst of  the ages.  It is very composed of them.  I can't think why they do  it.  Nor
why I have written a real letter.  If you write a real  letter back, damme, I'll try to CORRESPOND
with you.  A thing  unknown in this age.  It is a consequence of the decay of faith; we  cannot
believe that the fellow will be at the pains to read us.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

17 HERIOT ROW, EDINBURGH [APRIL 1879].

MY DEAR HENLEY, - Heavens! have I done the like?  'Clarify and  strain,' indeed?  'Make it
like Marvell,' no less.  I'll tell you  what - you may go to the devil; that's what I think.
'Be eloquent'  is another of your pregnant suggestions.  I cannot sufficiently  thank you for
that one.  Portrait of a person about to be eloquent  at the request of a literary friend.
You seem to forget sir, that  rhyme is rhyme, sir, and - go to the devil.

I'll try to improve it, but I shan't be able to - O go to the  devil.

Seriously, you're a cool hand.  And then you have the brass to ask  me WHY 'my steps went one
by one'?   Why?  Powers of man! to rhyme  with sun, to be sure.  Why else could it be?  And
you yourself have  been a poet!  G-r-r-r-r-r!  I'll never be a poet any more.  Men are  so
d-d ungrateful and captious, I declare I could weep.

O Henley, in my hours of ease You may say anything you please, But when I join the Muse's revel,
Begad, I wish you at the devil! In vain my verse I plane and bevel, Like Banville's rhyming
devotees; In vain by many an artful swivel Lug in my meaning by degrees; I'm sure to hear my
Henley cavil; And grovelling prostrate on my knees, Devote his body to the seas, His correspondence
to the devil!

Impromptu poem.

I'm going to Shandon Hydropathic CUM PARENTIBUS.  Write here.  I  heard from Lang.  Ferrier
prayeth to be remembered; he means to  write, likes his Tourgenieff greatly.  Also likes my
'What was on  the Slate,' which, under a new title, yet unfound, and with a new  and, on the
whole, kindly DENOUEMENT, is going to shoot up and  become a star. . . .

I see I must write some more to you about my Monastery.  I am a  weak brother in verse.  You
ask me to re-write things that I have  already managed just to write with the skin of my teeth.
If I  don't re-write them, it's because I don't see how to write them  better, not because
I don't think they should be.  But, curiously  enough, you condemn two of my favourite passages,
one of which is  J. W. Ferrier's favourite of the whole.  Here I shall think it's  you who
are wrong.  You see, I did not try to make good verse, but  to say what I wanted as well as
verse would let me.  I don't like  the rhyme 'ear' and 'hear.'  But the couplet, 'My undissuaded
heart  I hear Whisper courage in my ear,' is exactly what I want for the  thought, and to me
seems very energetic as speech, if not as verse.   Would 'daring' be better than 'courage'?
JE ME LE DEMANDE.  No, it  would be ambiguous, as though I had used it licentiously for  'daringly,'
and that would cloak the sense.

In short, your suggestions have broken the heart of the scald.  He  doesn't agree with them
all; and those he does agree with, the  spirit indeed is willing, but the d-d flesh cannot,
cannot, cannot,  see its way to profit by.  I think I'll lay it by for nine years,  like Horace.
I think the well of Castaly's run out.  No more the  Muses round my pillow haunt.  I am fallen
once more to the mere  proser.  God bless you.

R. L S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

SWANSTON, LOTHIANBURN, EDINBURGH, JULY 24, 1879.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - I have greatly enjoyed your articles which seems  to me handsome in tone,
and written like a fine old English  gentleman.  But is there not a hitch in the sentence at
foot of  page 153?  I get lost in it.

Chapters VIII. and IX. of Meredith's story are very good, I think.   But who wrote the review
of my book? whoever he was, he cannot  write; he is humane, but a duffer; I could weep when
I think of  him; for surely to be virtuous and incompetent is a hard lot.  I  should prefer
to be a bold pirate, the gay sailor-boy of  immorality, and a publisher at once.  My mind is
extinct; my  appetite is expiring; I have fallen altogether into a hollow-eyed,  yawning way
of life, like the parties in Burne Jones's pictures. .  . . Talking of Burns.  (Is this not
sad, Weg?  I use the term of  reproach not because I am angry with you this time, but because
I  am angry with myself and desire to give pain.)  Talking, I say, of  Robert Burns, the inspired
poet is a very gay subject for study.  I  made a kind of chronological table of his various
loves and lusts,  and have been comparatively speechless ever since.  I am sorry to  say it,
but there was something in him of the vulgar, bagmanlike,  professional seducer. - Oblige me
by taking down and reading, for  the hundredth time I hope, his 'Twa Dogs' and his 'Address
to the  Unco Guid.'  I am only a Scotchman, after all, you see; and when I  have beaten Burns,
I am driven at once, by my parental feelings, to  console him with a sugar-plum.  But hang
me if I know anything I  like so well as the 'Twa Dogs.'  Even a common Englishman may have
a glimpse, as it were from Pisgah, of its extraordinary merits.

'ENGLISH, THE:  - a dull people, incapable of comprehending the  Scottish tongue.  Their history
is so intimately connected with  that of Scotland, that we must refer our readers to that heading.
Their literature is principally the work of venal Scots.' -  Stevenson's HANDY CYCLOPAEDIA.
Glescow:  Blaikie & Bannock.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I am just in the middle of your Rembrandt.  The  taste for Bummkopf and his
works is agreeably dissembled so far as  I have gone; and the reins have never for an instant
been thrown  upon the neck of that wooden Pegasus; he only perks up a learned  snout from a
footnote in the cellarage of a paragraph; just, in  short, where he ought to be, to inspire
confidence in a wicked and  adulterous generation.  But, mind you, Bummkopf is not human; he
is  Dagon the fish god, and down he will come, sprawling on his belly  or his behind, with
his hands broken from his helpless carcase, and  his head rolling off into a corner.  Up will
rise on the other  side, sane, pleasurable, human knowledge:  a thing of beauty and a  joy, etc.

I'm three parts through Burns; long, dry, unsympathetic, but sound  and, I think, in its dry
way, interesting.  Next I shall finish the  story, and then perhaps Thoreau.  Meredith has
been staying with  Morley, who is about, it is believed, to write to me on a literary  scheme.
Is it Keats, hope you?  My heart leaps at the thought. -  Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

17 HERIOT ROW, EDINBURGH [JULY 29, 1879].

MY DEAR GOSSE, - Yours was delicious; you are a young person of  wit; one of the last of them;
wit being quite out of date, and  humour confined to the Scotch Church and the SPECTATOR in
unconscious survival.  You will probably be glad to hear that I am  up again in the world;
I have breathed again, and had a frolic on  the strength of it.  The frolic was yesterday,
Sawbath; the scene,  the Royal Hotel, Bathgate; I went there with a humorous friend to  lunch.
The maid soon showed herself a lass of character.  She was  looking out of window.  On being
asked what she was after, 'I'm  lookin' for my lad,' says she.  'Is that him?'  'Weel, I've
been  lookin' for him a' my life, and I've never seen him yet,' was the  response.  I wrote
her some verses in the vernacular; she read  them.  'They're no bad for a beginner,' said she.
The landlord's  daughter, Miss Stewart, was present in oil colour; so I wrote her a  declaration
in verse, and sent it by the handmaid.  She (Miss S.)  was present on the stair to witness
our departure, in a warm,  suffused condition.  Damn it, Gosse, you needn't suppose that  you're
the only poet in the world.

Your statement about your initials, it will be seen, I pass over in  contempt and silence.
When once I have made up my mind, let me  tell you, sir, there lives no pock-pudding who can
change it.  Your  anger I defy.  Your unmanly reference to a well-known statesman I  puff from
me, sir, like so much vapour.  Weg is your name; Weg.  W  E G.

My enthusiasm has kind of dropped from me.  I envy you your wife,  your home, your child -
I was going to say your cat.  There would  be cats in my home too if I could but get it.  I
may seem to you  'the impersonation of life,' but my life is the impersonation of  waiting,
and that's a poor creature.  God help us all, and the deil  be kind to the hindmost!  Upon
my word, we are a brave, cheery  crew, we human beings, and my admiration increases daily -
primarily for myself, but by a roundabout process for the whole  crowd; for I dare say they
have all their poor little secrets and  anxieties.  And here am I, for instance, writing to
you as if you  were in the seventh heaven, and yet I know you are in a sad anxiety  yourself.
I hope earnestly it will soon be over, and a fine pink  Gosse sprawling in a tub, and a mother
in the best of health and  spirits, glad and tired, and with another interest in life.  Man,
you are out of the trouble when this is through.  A first child is  a rival, but a second is
only a rival to the first; and the husband  stands his ground and may keep married all his
life - a  consummation heartily to be desired.  Good-bye, Gosse.  Write me a  witty letter
with good news of the mistress.

R. L. S.

CHAPTER IV - THE AMATEUR EMIGRANT, MONTEREY AND SAN FRANCISCO, JULY  1879-JULY 1880

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

ON BOARD SS. 'DEVONIA,' AN HOUR OR TWO OUT OF NEW YORK [AUGUST  1879].

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I have finished my story.  The handwriting is not  good because of the ship's
misconduct:  thirty-one pages in ten  days at sea is not bad.

I shall write a general procuration about this story on another bit  of paper.  I am not very
well; bad food, bad air, and hard work  have brought me down.  But the spirits keep good. 
The voyage has  been most interesting, and will make, if not a series of PALL MALL  articles,
at least the first part of a new book.  The last weight  on me has been trying to keep notes
for this purpose.  Indeed, I  have worked like a horse, and am now as tired as a donkey.  If
I  should have to push on far by rail, I shall bring nothing but my  fine bones to port.

Good-bye to you all.  I suppose it is now late afternoon with you  and all across the seas.
What shall I find over there?  I dare not  wonder. - Ever yours,

R. L. S.

P.S. - I go on my way to-night, if I can; if not, tomorrow:   emigrant train ten to fourteen
days' journey; warranted extreme  discomfort.  The only American institution which has yet
won my  respect is the rain.  One sees it is a new country, they are so  free with their water.
I have been steadily drenched for twenty- four hours; water-proof wet through; immortal spirit
fitfully  blinking up in spite.  Bought a copy of my own work, and the man  said 'by Stevenson.'
- 'Indeed,' says I. - 'Yes, sir,' says he. -  Scene closes.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[IN THE EMIGRANT TRAIN FROM NEW YORK TO SAN FRANCISCO, AUGUST  1879.]

DEAR COLVIN, - I am in the cars between Pittsburgh and Chicago,  just now bowling through Ohio.
I am taking charge of a kid, whose  mother is asleep, with one eye, while I write you this
with the  other.  I reached N.Y. Sunday night; and by five o'clock Monday was  under way for
the West.  It is now about ten on Wednesday morning,  so I have already been about forty hours
in the cars.  It is  impossible to lie down in them, which must end by being very  wearying.

I had no idea how easy it was to commit suicide.  There seems  nothing left of me; I died a
while ago; I do not know who it is  that is travelling.

Of where or how, I nothing know; And why, I do not care; Enough if, even so, My travelling
eyes, my travelling mind can go By flood and field and hill, by wood and meadow fair, Beside
the Susquehannah and along the Delaware. I think, I hope, I dream no more The dreams of otherwhere,
The cherished thoughts of yore; I have been changed from what I was before; And drunk too deep
perchance the lotus of the air Beside the Susquehannah and along the Delaware. Unweary God
me yet shall bring To lands of brighter air, Where I, now half a king, Shall with enfranchised
spirit loudlier sing, And wear a bolder front than that which now I wear Beside the Susquehannah
and along the Delaware.

Exit Muse, hurried by child's games. . . .

Have at you again, being now well through Indiana.  In America you  eat better than anywhere
else:  fact.  The food is heavenly.

No man is any use until he has dared everything; I feel just now as  if I had, and so might
become a man.  'If ye have faith like a  grain of mustard seed.'  That is so true! just now
I have faith as  big as a cigar-case; I will not say die, and do not fear man nor  fortune.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

CROSSING NEBRASKA [SATURDAY, AUGUST 23, 1879].

MY DEAR HENLEY, - I am sitting on the top of the cars with a mill  party from Missouri going
west for his health.  Desolate flat  prairie upon all hands.  Here and there a herd of cattle,
a yellow  butterfly or two; a patch of wild sunflowers; a wooden house or  two; then a wooden
church alone in miles of waste; then a windmill  to pump water.  When we stop, which we do
often, for emigrants and  freight travel together, the kine first, the men after, the whole
plain is heard singing with cicadae.  This is a pause, as you may  see from the writing.  What
happened to the old pedestrian  emigrants, what was the tedium suffered by the Indians and
trappers  of our youth, the imagination trembles to conceive.  This is now  Saturday, 23rd,
and I have been steadily travelling since I parted  from you at St. Pancras.  It is a strange
vicissitude from the  Savile Club to this; I sleep with a man from Pennsylvania who has  been
in the States Navy, and mess with him and the Missouri bird  already alluded to.  We have a
tin wash-bowl among four.  I wear  nothing but a shirt and a pair of trousers, and never button
my  shirt.  When I land for a meal, I pass my coat and feel dressed.   This life is to last
till Friday, Saturday, or Sunday next.  It is  a strange affair to be an emigrant, as I hope
you shall see in a  future work.  I wonder if this will be legible; my present station  on
the waggon roof, though airy compared to the cars, is both dirty  and insecure.  I can see
the track straight before and straight  behind me to either horizon.  Peace of mind I enjoy
with extreme  serenity; I am doing right; I know no one will think so; and don't  care.  My
body, however, is all to whistles; I don't eat; but, man,  I can sleep.  The car in front of
mine is chock full of Chinese.

MONDAY. - What it is to be ill in an emigrant train let those  declare who know.  I slept none
till late in the morning, overcome  with laudanum, of which I had luckily a little bottle.
All to-day  I have eaten nothing, and only drunk two cups of tea, for each of  which, on the
pretext that the one was breakfast, and the other  dinner, I was charged fifty cents.  Our
journey is through ghostly  deserts, sage brush and alkali, and rocks, without form or colour,
a sad corner of the world.  I confess I am not jolly, but mighty  calm, in my distresses. 
My illness is a subject of great mirth to  some of my fellow-travellers, and I smile rather
sickly at their  jests.

We are going along Bitter Creek just now, a place infamous in the  history of emigration, a
place I shall remember myself among the  blackest.  I hope I may get this posted at Ogden, Utah.

R. L S.

Letter:   TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[COAST LINE MOUNTAINS, CALIFORNIA, SEPTEMBER 1879.]

HERE is another curious start in my life.  I am living at an Angora  goat-ranche, in the Coast
Line Mountains, eighteen miles from  Monterey.  I was camping out, but got so sick that the
two  rancheros took me in and tended me.  One is an old bear-hunter,  seventy-two years old,
and a captain from the Mexican war; the  other a pilgrim, and one who was out with the bear
flag and under  Fremont when California was taken by the States.  They are both  true frontiersmen,
and most kind and pleasant.  Captain Smith, the  bear-hunter, is my physician, and I obey him
like an oracle.

The business of my life stands pretty nigh still.  I work at my  notes of the voyage.  It will
not be very like a book of mine; but  perhaps none the less successful for that.  I will not
deny that I  feel lonely to-day; but I do not fear to go on, for I am doing  right.  I have
not yet had a word from England, partly, I suppose,  because I have not yet written for my
letters to New York; do not  blame me for this neglect; if you knew all I have been through,
you  would wonder I had done so much as I have.  I teach the ranche  children reading in the
morning, for the mother is from home sick.  - Ever your affectionate friend,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

MONTEREY, DITTO CO., CALIFORNIA, 21ST OCTOBER [1879].

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Although you have absolutely disregarded my  plaintive appeals for correspondence,
and written only once as  against God knows how many notes and notikins of mine - here goes
again.  I am now all alone in Monterey, a real inhabitant, with a  box of my own at the P.O.
I have splendid rooms at the doctor's,  where I get coffee in the morning (the doctor is French),
and I  mess with another jolly old Frenchman, the stranded fifty-eight- year-old wreck of a
good-hearted, dissipated, and once wealthy  Nantais tradesman.  My health goes on better; as
for work, the  draft of my book was laid aside at p. 68 or so; and I have now, by  way of change,
more than seventy pages of a novel, a one-volume  novel, alas! to be called either A CHAPTER
IN EXPERIENCE OF ARIZONA  BRECKONRIDGE or A VENDETTA IN THE WEST, or a combination of the 
two.  The scene from Chapter IV. to the end lies in Monterey and  the adjacent country; of
course, with my usual luck, the plot of  the story is somewhat scandalous, containing an illegitimate
father  for piece of resistance. . . .  Ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA, SEPTEMBER 1879.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I received your letter with delight; it was the  first word that reached
me from the old country.  I am in good  health now; I have been pretty seedy, for I was exhausted
by the  journey and anxiety below even my point of keeping up; I am still a  little weak, but
that is all; I begin to ingrease, it seems  already.  My book is about half drafted:  the AMATEUR
EMIGRANT,  that is.  Can you find a better name?  I believe it will be more  popular than any
of my others; the canvas is so much more popular  and larger too.  Fancy, it is my fourth.
That voluminous writer.   I was vexed to hear about the last chapter of 'The Lie,' and  pleased
to hear about the rest; it would have been odd if it had no  birthmark, born where and how
it was.  It should by rights have  been called the DEVONIA, for that is the habit with all
children  born in a steerage.

I write to you, hoping for more.  Give me news of all who concern  me, near or far, or big
or little.  Here, sir, in California you  have a willing hearer.

Monterey is a place where there is no summer or winter, and pines  and sand and distant hills
and a bay all filled with real water  from the Pacific.  You will perceive that no expense
has been  spared.  I now live with a little French doctor; I take one of my  meals in a little
French restaurant; for the other two, I sponge.   The population of Monterey is about that
of a dissenting chapel on  a wet Sunday in a strong church neighbourhood.  They are mostly
Mexican and Indian-mixed. - Ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

MONTEREY, MONTEREY CO., CALIFORNIA, 8TH OCTOBER 1879.

MY DEAR WEG, - I know I am a rogue and the son of a dog.  Yet let  me tell you, when I came
here I had a week's misery and a  fortnight's illness, and since then I have been more or less
busy  in being content.  This is a kind of excuse for my laziness.  I  hope you will not excuse
yourself.  My plans are still very  uncertain, and it is not likely that anything will happen
before  Christmas.  In the meanwhile, I believe I shall live on here  'between the sandhills
and the sea,' as I think Mr. Swinburne hath  it.  I was pretty nearly slain; my spirit lay
down and kicked for  three days; I was up at an Angora goat-ranche in the Santa Lucia  Mountains,
nursed by an old frontiers-man, a mighty hunter of  bears, and I scarcely slept, or ate, or
thought for four days.  Two  nights I lay out under a tree in a sort of stupor, doing nothing
but fetch water for myself and horse, light a fire and make coffee,  and all night awake hearing
the goat-bells ringing and the tree- frogs singing when each new noise was enough to set me
mad.  Then  the bear-hunter came round, pronounced me 'real sick,' and ordered  me up to the
ranche.

It was an odd, miserable piece of my life; and according to all  rule, it should have been
my death; but after a while my spirit got  up again in a divine frenzy, and has since kicked
and spurred my  vile body forward with great emphasis and success.

My new book, THE AMATEUR EMIGRANT, is about half drafted.  I don't  know if it will be good,
but I think it ought to sell in spite of  the deil and the publishers; for it tells an odd
enough experience,  and one, I think, never yet told before.  Look for my 'Burns' in  the CORNHILL,
and for my 'Story of a Lie' in Paul's withered babe,  the NEW QUARTERLY.  You may have seen
the latter ere this reaches  you:  tell me if it has any interest, like a good boy, and remember
that it was written at sea in great anxiety of mind.  What is your  news?  Send me your works,
like an angel, AU FUR ET A MESURE of  their apparition, for I am naturally short of literature,
and I do  not wish to rust.

I fear this can hardly be called a letter.  To say truth, I feel  already a difficulty of approach;
I do not know if I am the same  man I was in Europe, perhaps I can hardly claim acquaintance
with  you.  My head went round and looks another way now; for when I  found myself over here
in a new land, and all the past uprooted in  the one tug, and I neither feeling glad nor sorry,
I got my last  lesson about mankind; I mean my latest lesson, for of course I do  not know
what surprises there are yet in store for me.  But that I  could have so felt astonished me
beyond description.  There is a  wonderful callousness in human nature which enables us to
live.  I  had no feeling one way or another, from New York to California,  until, at Dutch
Flat, a mining camp in the Sierra, I heard a cock  crowing with a home voice; and then I fell
to hope and regret both  in the same moment.

Is there a boy or a girl? and how is your wife?  I thought of you  more than once, to put it
mildly.

I live here comfortably enough; but I shall soon be left all alone,  perhaps till Christmas.
Then you may hope for correspondence - and  may not I? - Your friend,

R L S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA, OCTOBER 1879.]

MY DEAR HENLEY, - Herewith the PAVILION ON THE LINKS, grand  carpentry story in nine chapters,
and I should hesitate to say how  many tableaux.  Where is it to go?  God knows.  It is the
dibbs  that are wanted.  It is not bad, though I say it; carpentry, of  course, but not bad
at that; and who else can carpenter in England,  now that Wilkie Collins is played out?  It
might be broken for  magazine purposes at the end of Chapter IV.  I send it to you, as I  dare
say Payn may help, if all else fails.  Dibbs and speed are my  mottoes.

Do acknowledge the PAVILION by return.  I shall be so nervous till  I hear, as of course I
have no copy except of one or two places  where the vein would not run.  God prosper it, poor
PAVILION!  May  it bring me money for myself and my sick one, who may read it, I do  not know
how soon.

Love to your wife, Anthony and all.  I hope Colvin  or somebody has sent me the CORNHILL and
the NEW QUARTERLY, though  I am trying to get them in San Francisco.  I think you might have
sent me (1) some of your articles in the P. M. G.; (2) a paper with  the announcement of second
edition; and (3) the announcement of the  essays in ATHENAEUM.  This to prick you in the future.
Again,  choose, in your head, the best volume of Labiche there is, and post  it to Jules Simoneau,
Monterey, Monterey Co., California:  do this  at once, as he is my restaurant man, a most pleasant
old boy with  whom I discuss the universe and play chess daily.  He has been out  of France
for thirty-five years, and never heard of Labiche.  I  have eighty-three pages written of a
story called a VENDETTA IN THE  WEST, and about sixty pages of the first draft of the AMATEUR
EMIGRANT.  They should each cover from 130 to 150 pages when done.   That is all my literary
news.  Do keep me posted, won't you?  Your  letter and Bob's made the fifth and sixth I have
had from Europe in  three months.

At times I get terribly frightened about my work, which seems to  advance too slowly.  I hope
soon to have a greater burthen to  support, and must make money a great deal quicker than I
used.  I  may get nothing for the VENDETTA; I may only get some forty quid  for the EMIGRANT;
I cannot hope to have them both done much before  the end of November.

O, and look here, why did you not send me the SPECTATOR which  slanged me?  Rogues and rascals,
is that all you are worth?

Yesterday I set fire to the forest, for which, had I been caught, I  should have been hung
out of hand to the nearest tree, Judge Lynch  being an active person hereaway.  You should
have seen my retreat  (which was entirely for strategical purposes).  I ran like hell.   It
was a fine sight.  At night I went out again to see it; it was a  good fire, though I say it
that should not.  I had a near escape  for my life with a revolver:  I fired six charges, and
the six  bullets all remained in the barrel, which was choked from end to  end, from muzzle
to breach, with solid lead; it took a man three  hours to drill them out.  Another shot, and
I'd have gone to  kingdom come.

This is a lovely place, which I am growing to love.  The Pacific  licks all other oceans out
of hand; there is no place but the  Pacific Coast to hear eternal roaring surf.  When I get
to the top  of the woods behind Monterey, I can hear the seas breaking all  round over ten
or twelve miles of coast from near Carmel on my  left, out to Point Pinas in front, and away
to the right along the  sands of Monterey to Castroville and the mouth of the Salinas.  I 
was wishing yesterday that the world could get - no, what I mean  was that you should be kept
in suspense like Mahomet's coffin until  the world had made half a revolution, then dropped
here at the  station as though you had stepped from the cars; you would then  comfortably enter
Walter's waggon (the sun has just gone down, the  moon beginning to throw shadows, you hear
the surf rolling, and  smell the sea and the pines).  That shall deposit you at Sanchez's 
saloon, where we take a drink; you are introduced to Bronson, the  local editor ('I have no
brain music,' he says; 'I'm a mechanic,  you see,' but he's a nice fellow); to Adolpho Sanchez,
who is  delightful.  Meantime I go to the P. O. for my mail; thence we walk  up Alvarado Street
together, you now floundering in the sand, now  merrily stumping on the wooden side-walks;
I call at Hadsell's for  my paper; at length behold us installed in Simoneau's little white-
washed back-room, round a dirty tablecloth, with Francois the  baker, perhaps an Italian fisherman,
perhaps Augustin Dutra, and  Simoneau himself.  Simoneau, Francois, and I are the three sure
cards; the others mere waifs.  Then home to my great airy rooms  with five windows opening
on a balcony; I sleep on the floor in my  camp blankets; you instal yourself abed; in the morning
coffee with  the little doctor and his little wife; we hire a waggon and make a  day of it;
and by night, I should let you up again into the air, to  be returned to Mrs. Henley in the
forenoon following.  By God, you  would enjoy yourself.  So should I.  I have tales enough
to keep  you going till five in the morning, and then they would not be at  an end.  I forget
if you asked me any questions, and I sent your  letter up to the city to one who will like
to read it.  I expect  other letters now steadily.  If I have to wait another two months, 
I shall begin to be happy.  Will you remember me most  affectionately to your wife?  Shake
hands with Anthony from me; and  God bless your mother.

God bless Stephen!  Does he not know that I am a man, and cannot  live by bread alone, but
must have guineas into the bargain.   Burns, I believe, in my own mind, is one of my high-water
marks;  Meiklejohn flames me a letter about it, which is so complimentary  that I must keep
it or get it published in the MONTEREY  CALIFORNIAN.  Some of these days I shall send an exemplaire
of that  paper; it is huge. - Ever your affectionate friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO P. G. HAMERTON

MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA [NOVEMBER 1879].

MY DEAR MR. HAMERTON, - Your letter to my father was forwarded to  me by mistake, and by mistake
I opened it.  The letter to myself  has not yet reached me.  This must explain my own and my
father's  silence.  I shall write by this or next post to the only friends I  have who, I think,
would have an influence, as they are both  professors.  I regret exceedingly that I am not
in Edinburgh, as I  could perhaps have done more, and I need not tell you that what I  might
do for you in the matter of the election is neither from  friendship nor gratitude, but because
you are the only man (I beg  your pardon) worth a damn.  I shall write to a third friend, now
I  think of it, whose father will have great influence.

I find here (of all places in the world) your ESSAYS ON ART, which  I have read with signal
interest.  I believe I shall dig an essay  of my own out of one of them, for it set me thinking;
if mine could  only produce yet another in reply, we could have the marrow out  between us.

I hope, my dear sir, you will not think badly of me for my long  silence.  My head has scarce
been on my shoulders.  I had scarce  recovered from a long fit of useless ill-health than I
was whirled  over here double-quick time and by cheapest conveyance.

I have been since pretty ill, but pick up, though still somewhat of  a mossy ruin.  If you
would view my countenance aright, come - view  it by the pale moonlight.  But that is on the
mend.  I believe I  have now a distant claim to tan.

A letter will be more than welcome in this distant clime where I  have a box at the post-office
- generally, I regret to say, empty.   Could your recommendation introduce me to an American
publisher?   My next book I should really try to get hold of here, as its  interest is international,
and the more I am in this country the  more I understand the weight of your influence.  It
is pleasant to  be thus most at home abroad, above all, when the prophet is still  not without
honour in his own land. . . .

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA, 15TH NOVEMBER 1879.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - Your letter was to me such a bright spot that I  answer it right away to the
prejudice of other correspondents or - dants (don't know how to spell it) who have prior claims.
. . . It  is the history of our kindnesses that alone makes this world  tolerable.  If it were
not for that, for the effect of kind words,  kind looks, kind letters, multiplying, spreading,
making one happy  through another and bringing forth benefits, some thirty, some  fifty, some
a thousandfold, I should be tempted to think our life a  practical jest in the worst possible
spirit.  So your four pages  have confirmed my philosophy as well as consoled my heart in these
ill hours.

Yes, you are right; Monterey is a pleasant place; but I see I can  write no more to-night.
I am tired and sad, and being already in  bed, have no more to do but turn out the light. -
Your affectionate  friend,

R. L S.

I try it again by daylight.  Once more in bed however; for to-day  it is MUCHO FRIO, as we
Spaniards say; and I had no other means of  keeping warm for my work.  I have done a good spell,
9 and a half  foolscap pages; at least 8 of CORNHILL; ah, if I thought that I  could get eight
guineas for it.  My trouble is that I am all too  ambitious just now.  A book whereof 70 out
of 120 are scrolled.  A  novel whereof 85 out of, say, 140 are pretty well nigh done.  A  short
story of 50 pp., which shall be finished to-morrow, or I'll  know the reason why.  This may
bring in a lot of money:  but I  dread to think that it is all on three chances.  If the three
were  to fail, I am in a bog.  The novel is called A VENDETTA IN THE  WEST.  I see I am in
a grasping, dismal humour, and should, as we  Americans put it, quit writing.  In truth, I
am so haunted by  anxieties that one or other is sure to come up in all that I write.

I will send you herewith a Monterey paper where the works of R. L.  S. appear, nor only that,
but all my life on studying the  advertisements will become clear.  I lodge with Dr. Heintz;
take my  meals with Simoneau; have been only two days ago shaved by the  tonsorial artist Michaels;
drink daily at the Bohemia saloon; get  my daily paper from Hadsel's; was stood a drink to-day
by Albano  Rodriguez; in short, there is scarce a person advertised in that  paper but I know
him, and I may add scarce a person in Monterey but  is there advertised.  The paper is the
marrow of the place.  Its  bones - pooh, I am tired of writing so sillily.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[MONTEREY, DECEMBER 1879.]

TO-DAY, my dear Colvin, I send you the first part of the AMATEUR  EMIGRANT, 71 pp., by far
the longest and the best of the whole.  It  is not a monument of eloquence; indeed, I have
sought to be prosaic  in view of the nature of the subject; but I almost think it is  interesting.

Whatever is done about any book publication, two things remember:   I must keep a royalty;
and, second, I must have all my books  advertised, in the French manner, on the leaf opposite
the title.   I know from my own experience how much good this does an author  with book BUYERS.

The entire A. E. will be a little longer than the two others, but  not very much.  Here and
there, I fancy, you will laugh as you read  it; but it seems to me rather a CLEVER book than
anything else:   the book of a man, that is, who has paid a great deal of attention  to contemporary
life, and not through the newspapers.

I have never seen my Burns! the darling of my heart!  I await your  promised letter.  Papers,
magazines, articles by friends; reviews  of myself, all would be very welcome, I am reporter
for the  MONTEREY CALIFORNIAN, at a salary of two dollars a week!  COMMENT  TROUVEZ-VOUS CA?
I am also in a conspiracy with the American  editor, a French restaurant-man, and an Italian
fisherman against  the Padre.  The enclosed poster is my last literary appearance.  It  was
put up to the number of 200 exemplaires at the witching hour;  and they were almost all destroyed
by eight in the morning.  But I  think the nickname will stick.  Dos Reales; deux reaux; two
bits;  twenty-five cents; about a shilling; but in practice it is worth  from ninepence to
threepence:  thus two glasses of beer would cost  two bits.  The Italian fisherman, an old
Garibaldian, is a splendid  fellow.

R. L. S.

Letter:  To EDMUND GOSSE

MONTEREY, MONTEREY CO., CALIFORNIA, DEC. 8, 1879.

MY DEAR WEG, - I received your book last night as I lay abed with a  pleurisy, the result,
I fear, of overwork, gradual decline of  appetite, etc.  You know what a wooden-hearted curmudgeon
I am  about contemporary verse.  I like none of it, except some of my  own.  (I look back on
that sentence with pleasure; it comes from an  honest heart.)  Hence you will be kind enough
to take this from me  in a kindly spirit; the piece 'To my daughter' is delicious.  And  yet
even here I am going to pick holes.  I am a BEASTLY curmudgeon.   It is the last verse.  'Newly
budded' is off the venue; and haven't  you gone ahead to make a poetry daybreak instead of
sticking to  your muttons, and comparing with the mysterious light of stars the  plain, friendly,
perspicuous, human day?  But this is to be a  beast.  The little poem is eminently pleasant,
human, and original.

I have read nearly the whole volume, and shall read it nearly all  over again; you have no rivals!

Bancroft's HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES, even in a centenary  edition, is essentially heavy
fare; a little goes a long way; I  respect Bancroft, but I do not love him; he has moments
when he  feels himself inspired to open up his improvisations upon universal  history and the
designs of God; but I flatter myself I am more  nearly acquainted with the latter than Mr.
Bancroft.  A man, in the  words of my Plymouth Brother, 'who knows the Lord,' must needs, 
from time to time, write less emphatically.  It is a fetter dance  to the music of minute guns
- not at sea, but in a region not a  thousand miles from the Sahara.  Still, I am half-way
through  volume three, and shall count myself unworthy of the name of an  Englishman if I do
not see the back of volume six.  The countryman  of Livingstone, Burton, Speke, Drake, Cook, etc.!

I have been sweated not only out of my pleuritic fever, but out of  all my eating cares, and
the better part of my brains (strange  coincidence!), by aconite.  I have that peculiar and
delicious  sense of being born again in an expurgated edition which belongs to  convalescence.
It will not be for long; I hear the breakers roar;  I shall be steering head first for another
rapid before many days;  NITOR AQUIS, said a certain Eton boy, translating for his sins a 
part of the INLAND VOYAGE into Latin elegiacs; and from the hour I  saw it, or rather a friend
of mine, the admirable Jenkin, saw and  recognised its absurd appropriateness, I took it for
my device in  life.  I am going for thirty now; and unless I can snatch a little  rest before
long, I have, I may tell you in confidence, no hope of  seeing thirty-one.  My health began
to break last winter, and has  given me but fitful times since then.  This pleurisy, though
but a  slight affair in itself was a huge disappointment to me, and marked  an epoch.  To start
a pleurisy about nothing, while leading a dull,  regular life in a mild climate, was not my
habit in past days; and  it is six years, all but a few months, since I was obliged to spend
twenty-four hours in bed.  I may be wrong, but if the niting is to  continue, I believe I must
go.  It is a pity in one sense, for I  believe the class of work I MIGHT yet give out is better
and more  real and solid than people fancy.  But death is no bad friend; a  few aches and gasps,
and we are done; like the truant child, I am  beginning to grow weary and timid in this big
jostling city, and  could run to my nurse, even although she should have to whip me  before
putting me to bed.

Will you kiss your little daughter from me, and tell her that her  father has written a delightful
poem about her?  Remember me,  please, to Mrs. Gosse, to Middlemore, to whom some of these
days I  will write, to -, to -, yes, to -, and to -.  I know you will gnash  your teeth at
some of these; wicked, grim, catlike old poet.  If I  were God, I would sort you - as we say
in Scotland. - Your sincere  friend,

R. L. S.

'Too young to be our child':  blooming good.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

608 BUSH STREET, SAN FRANCISCO [DECEMBER 26, 1879].

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I am now writing to you in a cafe waiting for  some music to begin.  For
four days I have spoken to no one but to  my landlady or landlord or to restaurant waiters.
This is not a  gay way to pass Christmas, is it? and I must own the guts are a  little knocked
out of me.  If I could work, I could worry through  better.  But I have no style at command
for the moment, with the  second part of the EMIGRANT, the last of the novel, the essay on
Thoreau, and God knows all, waiting for me.  But I trust something  can be done with the first
part, or, by God, I'll starve here . . .  .

O Colvin, you don't know how much good I have done myself.  I  feared to think this out by
myself.  I have made a base use of you,  and it comes out so much better than I had dreamed.
But I have to  stick to work now; and here's December gone pretty near useless.   But, Lord
love you, October and November saw a great harvest.  It  might have affected the price of paper
on the Pacific coast.  As  for ink, they haven't any, not what I call ink; only stuff to write
cookery-books with, or the works of Hayley, or the pallid  perambulations of the - I can find
nobody to beat Hayley.  I like  good, knock-me-down black-strap to write with; that makes a
mark  and done with it. - By the way, I have tried to read the SPECTATOR,  which they all say
I imitate, and - it's very wrong of me, I know -  but I can't.  It's all very fine, you know,
and all that, but it's  vapid.  They have just played the overture to NORMA, and I know  it's
a good one, for I bitterly wanted the opera to go on; I had  just got thoroughly interested
- and then no curtain to rise.

I have written myself into a kind of spirits, bless your dear  heart, by your leave.  But this
is wild work for me, nearly nine  and me not back!  What will Mrs. Carson think of me!  Quite
a  night-hawk, I do declare.  You are the worst correspondent in the  world - no, not that,
Henley is that - well, I don't know, I leave  the pair of you to Him that made you - surely
with small attention.   But here's my service, and I'll away home to my den O! much the  better
for this crack, Professor Colvin.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - This is a circular letter to tell my estate  fully.  You have no right to
it, being the worst of correspondents;  but I wish to efface the impression of my last, so
to you it goes.

Any time between eight and half-past nine in the morning, a slender  gentleman in an ulster,
with a volume buttoned into the breast of  it, may be observed leaving No. 608 Bush and descending
Powell with  an active step.  The gentleman is R. L. S.; the volume relates to  Benjamin Franklin,
on whom he meditates one of his charming essays.   He descends Powell, crosses Market, and
descends in Sixth on a  branch of the original Pine Street Coffee House, no less; I believe
he would be capable of going to the original itself, if he could  only find it.  In the branch
he seats himself at a table covered  with waxcloth, and a pampered menial, of High-Dutch extraction
and,  indeed, as yet only partially extracted, lays before him a cup of  coffee, a roll and
a pat of butter, all, to quote the deity, very  good.  A while ago, and R. L. S. used to find
the supply of butter  insufficient; but he has now learned the art to exactitude, and  butter
and roll expire at the same moment.  For this refection he  pays ten cents., or five pence
sterling (0 pounds, 0s. 5d.).

Half an hour later, the inhabitants of Bush Street observe the same  slender gentleman armed,
like George Washington, with his little  hatchet, splitting, kindling and breaking coal for
his fire.  He  does this quasi-publicly upon the window-sill; but this is not to  be attributed
to any love of notoriety, though he is indeed vain of  his prowess with the hatchet (which
he persists in calling an axe),  and daily surprised at the perpetuation of his fingers.  The
reason  is this:  that the sill is a strong, supporting beam, and that  blows of the same emphasis
in other parts of his room might knock  the entire shanty into hell.  Thenceforth, for from
three to four  hours, he is engaged darkly with an inkbottle.  Yet he is not  blacking his
boots, for the only pair that he possesses are  innocent of lustre and wear the natural hue
of the material turned  up with caked and venerable slush.  The youngest child of his  landlady
remarks several times a day, as this strange occupant  enters or quits the house, 'Dere's de
author.'  Can it be that this  bright-haired innocent has found the true clue to the mystery?
The  being in question is, at least, poor enough to belong to that  honourable craft.

His next appearance is at the restaurant of one Donadieu, in Bush  Street, between Dupont and
Kearney, where a copious meal, half a  bottle of wine, coffee and brandy may be procured for
the sum of  four bits, ALIAS fifty cents., 0 pounds, 2s. 2d. sterling.  The  wine is put down
in a whole bottleful, and it is strange and  painful to observe the greed with which the gentleman
in question  seeks to secure the last drop of his allotted half, and the  scrupulousness with
which he seeks to avoid taking the first drop  of the other.  This is partly explained by the
fact that if he were  to go over the mark - bang would go a tenpence.  He is again armed  with
a book, but his best friends will learn with pain that he  seems at this hour to have deserted
the more serious studies of the  morning.  When last observed, he was studying with apparent
zest  the exploits of one Rocambole by the late Viscomte Ponson du  Terrail.  This work, originally
of prodigious dimensions, he had  cut into liths or thicknesses apparently for convenience
of  carriage.

