THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT. AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIX. NO. 534.] SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1832. [PRICE 2d

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR LADY'S CHAPEL,

The Engraving represents the interior of the Virgin Mary's Chapel, commonly called the Lady
Chapel, and appended to the ancient collegiate church of St. Saviour, Southwark. The exterior
view of the Chapel will be found in No. 456 of The Mirror. About eighteen months since part
of the western side of the High-street was removed for the approach to the New London Bridge,
when this Chapel was opened to view; but its dilapidated appearance was rather calculated to
interest antiquarian than public curiosity. The London Bridge Committee recommended the parishioners
of St. Saviour to cause the Chapel to be pulled down, and their selfish suggestion would have
been complied with, had not some enlightened and public-spirited individuals stepped forth
to frustrate the levellers. The parishioners now became two parties. One contended for the
restoration of the Chapel, as "one of the most chaste and elegant specimens of early pointed
architecture of the thirteenth century of which this country can boast." The levellers, whose
muckworm minds, and love of the arts is only shown in that of money-getting--maintained that
the demolition of the Chapel would be "a pecuniary saving;" but theirs was a penny-wise and
pound-foolish spirit; for, by removing the Chapel, a greater expense would be incurred than
in its restoration. The folks could not understand plain figures, and so resolved to take the
sense and nonsense of the parish, and the subject has been decided by a majority of 240 in
favour of repairing the Chapel. The funds for this purpose, it should be understood, were in
course of provision by public subscription, so that the blindness of party zeal threatened
to reject a special advantage--the public would find the money if they would allow the Chapel
to remain--whereas, had the demolition taken place, the parishioners must themselves have defrayed
the consequent expenses. Historians loudly condemn the royal and noble thieves who plundered
the Coliseum and the Pantheon to build palaces, yet there are men in our times, who would,
if they could, take Dr. Johnson's hint to pound St. Paul's Church into atoms, and with it macadamize
their roads; or fetch it away by piecemeal to build bridges with its stones, and saw up its
marble monuments into chimneypieces.

The church of St. Saviour is built in the form of a cathedral, with a nave, side aisles, transepts,
a choir, with its side aisles; and the chapel of St. John, which now forms the vestry, and
the chapel of the Virgin Mary, or Our Lady. To the east end of the latter there has since been
added a small chapel, called the Bishop's Chapel. Another chapel, (of St. Mary Magdalen,) was
also connected with the south aisle of the church. The parishioners seem to have hitherto neglected
the Lady Chapel, and to have shown their cupidity in ages long past. Through the influence
of Dr. Gardiner, Bishop of Winchester, they were allowed to purchase the church of that wholesale
sin-salesman, Henry VIII.; but after the parish had obtained the grant of the church, they
let the Lady Chapel to one Wyat, a baker, who converted it into a bake-house. He stopped up
the two doors which communicated with the aisles of the church, and the two which opened into
the chancel, and which, though visible, still remain masoned up.[1] In 1607, Mr. Henry Wilson,
tenant of the Chapel of the Holy Virgin, found himself inconvenienced by a tomb "of a certain
cade," and applied to the vestry for its removal, which was very "friendly" consented to, "making
the place up again in any reasonable sort."[2] In this state it continued till the year 1624,
when the vestry restored it to its original condition, at an expense of two hundred pounds.
"More than that sum," observes the Rev. Mr. Nightingale, "I should conceive would now be required
to repair this venerable part of St. Saviour's Church in such a manner as is absolutely necessary.
The pillars have in a great degree lost their perpendicular position: the mouldings and mullions
of the windows are distorted in the most shameful manner; the walls are rapidly hastening to
their final decay; and the whole place appears to be destined to become once more the resort
of hogs and vermin of every description. That this should be the case is a great disgrace to
the parish, and an insult to the diocese, in which St. Saviour's Church holds so conspicuous
a character."[3]

The roof of the Chapel is divided into nine groined arches, supported by six octangular pillars
in two rows, having small circular columns at the four points. At the back of the altar-screen
of the church[4] are some tracery compartments, probably, according to Mr. Bray, once affording
through them a view of this chapel. In the east end, on the north side, are three lancet-shaped
windows, forming one great window, divided by slender pillars, and having mouldings, with zig-zag
ornaments. The tracery windows on the south side are masoned up, but much of the original tracery
remains. At the north-east corner are remains of sharp-pointed arches; here also is an enclosure
with table, desk, and elevated seat. This part is, properly speaking, the Bishop's Court; but
this name is common to the whole chapel, in which the Bishop of Winchester holds his Court;
and in which are held the visitations for the Deanery of Southwark.

The annexed view was taken from the north-west entrance, and shows the character of the groined
roof, the supporting pillars, and the entrance to the Bishop's Chapel adjoining, by an ascent
of two steps; this Chapel being named from the Tomb of Bishop Andrews, formerly standing in
the centre of it. We recommend the reader to a clever paper in the Gentleman's Megazine for
the present month, in which the writer proves that Our Lady's Chapel, so far from being an
excrescence, as has been idly stated, "bears the same relation to the church an the head does
to the body."

[1] Stow--These have lately been re-opened.--ED. M.

[2] Parish Books.

[3] Hist. and Antiq. Paroch. Church, St. Saviour, Southwark, 4to. 1818.

[4] This Screen is about to be partially restored at an expense of about
    £800. now in course of subscription among the more respectable and
    intelligent parishioners.

       *       *      *      *       *

NIGHT-MARE.

(For the Mirror.)

  Sleeping in night-mare's thunderstorm-wove lap,
    On sunless mountain high above the pole;
  With ice for sheets, and lightning for a cap,
    And tons of loadstones weighing on his soul;
  And eye out-stretched upon some vasty map
    Of uncouth worlds, which ever onward roll
  To infinite--like Revelation's scroll.
    Now falling headlong from his mountain bed
  Down sulph'rous space, o'er dismal lakes;
    Now held by hand of air--on wings of lead
  He tries to rise--gasping--the hands' hold breaks,
    And downward he reels through shadows of the dead,
  Who cannot die though stalking in hell's flakes,
  Falling, he catches his heart-string on some hook, and--wakes.

E.H.[1]

[1] Where did the Sportsman's Letters come from?--ED.

       *       *       *       *       *

LACONICS.

There is nothing to be said in favour of fashion, and yet how many are contented implicitly
to obey its commands: its rules are not even dictated by the standard of taste, for it is constantly
running into extremes and condemns one day what it approves the next.

There are some people so incorrigibly stupid and prosing, that wherever they are anxious of
securing respect, silence would be their best policy.

As we advance in age, it is singular what a revolution takes place in our feelings. When we
arrive at maturity an unkind word is more cutting and distresses us more than any bodily suffering;
in our youth it was the reverse.

There is nothing so ravishing to the proud and the great (with all their resources for enjoyment)
as to be thought happy by their inferiors.

Such are the casualties of life, that the presentiment of fear is far wiser than that of hope;
and it would seem at all times more prudent to be providing against accident, than laying out
schemes of future happiness.

The character of any particular people may be looked for with best success in their national
works of talent.

There is no absurdity in approving as well as condemning the same individual; for as few people
are always in the right, so on the other hand it is improbable they should be always in the wrong.

The most elegant flattery is at second hand; viz., to repeat over again the praises bestowed
by others.

Ignorance, simple, helpless ignorance, is not to be imputed as a fault; but very often men
are wilfully ignorant.

We have fewer enemies than we imagine: many are too indolent to care at all about us, and if
the stream of censure is running against us, the world is too careless to oppose it. If we
could hear what is said of us in our absence we should torment ourselves without real cause,
for we should seldom hear the real sentiments of the speaker; many things are said in mere
wantonness, and many more from the desire of being brilliant.

The man who feels he is in the right is seldom dogmatical, for truth is always calm and requires
not violence to enforce her arguments: we should desist from the contest the moment we feel
anxious about victory, because that anxiety must make us less particular about the truth.

Quickness of intellect is no proof of solidity: the deepest rivers flow on the smoothest.

The reason why there are so few instances of heroism in modern times is the total decay of
political virtue: we are broken up into small parties and associate only with our families,
thus forgetting the public, in our regard for private interest: the ancients were taught rather
to live for the benefit of the whole community.

An over-refined philosophy begets sensitiveness, and is as little to be coveted as a moderate
share of it is beneficial.

It seems to be the business of life to lay by fresh cause for anxiety and discontent by increasing
our estate; whereas we should rather know how to lose it all, and yet be contented.

There are some people, who though very amiable in the main, and obliging in their offices to
others, have yet that most unhappy propensity of being gloomy over every thing.

It is one of the wisest provisions of Fortune that the same vices which ruin our estates, take
away also the means of enjoying them by depriving us of health.

There is more virtue in obscurity than is commonly supposed; and perhaps there have been nobler
specimens of magnanimity in low life, than even the page of history can boast.

Knowledge of the world must be combined with study, for this, as well as better reasons: the
possession of learning is always invidious, and it requires considerable tact to inform without
a display of superiority, and to ensure esteem, as well as call forth admiration.

Deceit has the effect of impoverishing, as well as enriching, men: the prodigal becomes poor
by pretending to be richer than he really is, while seeming poverty is the very making of a miser.

F.

       *       *       *       *       *

STANZAS TO THE SPIRIT OF MORNING.

(For the Mirror.)

  Angel of morn! whose beauteous home
    In light's unfading fountain lies;
  Whose smiles dispel night's sable gloom,
    And fill with splendour earth and skies,
  While o'er the horizon pure and pale,
    Thy beams are dawning, thee I hail.

  The star that watches, pure and lone,
    In yon clear heaven so silently,
  Looks trembling from its azure throne
    Upon thy beaming glories nigh;
  And yields to thee first-born of day,
  Reluctantly its heavenly sway.

  Sweet spirit, with that early ray,
    Which steals so softly through the gloom,
  Trembling and brightening in its way,
    What beauties o'er creation come;
  Ere thy unclouded smiles arise
  In all their splendour through the skies.

  The rosy cloud--the azure sky,
    Earth--ocean, with its heaving breast,
  Where thy bright hues reflected lie,
    And there in varying beauty rest,
  Rejoice in thee; and from the grove,
  To hail thee, bursts the voice of love.

  Eternal beauty round thee dwells,
    And joy thine early steps attends,
  While music wildly breathing swells,
    And with thy gales of perfume blends:
  Pure, beautiful you smile above,
  Like youth's fond dreams of hope and love.

  Thy skies of blue, thy beaming light,
    Thy gales so balmy, wild, and free,
  Thy lustre on the mountain's height,
    Have charms beyond all else for me;
  Whilst my glad spirit fain would rise
  To hail and meet thee in the skies.

SYLVA.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

BRITAIN'S HISTORICAL DRAMA.

We understand Mr. Pennie's design, in this volume, to be the chronological arrangement of certain
incidents of each king's reign in a series of National Tragedies. There are four such tragedies
in the present portion, commencing with Arixina in which figure Julius Caesar, Cassfelyn, and
Cymbaline, and extending to Edwin and Elgiva: the titles of the intervening pieces are the
Imperial Pirate and the Dragon King. There is much wild and beautiful romance in the diction,
but we take the most attractive portion to be the lyrical portion, as the Chants, Dirges, and
Choruses. We recommend them as models for the play-wrights who do such things for the acting
drama, and if the poetship to a patent theatre be worth acceptance, we beg to commend Mr. Pennie
to the notice of managers. The poet of the King's Theatre figures in the bills of the day,
and yet he is but a translator.

It is difficult to select an entire scene for quotation, so that we take a specimen from Arixina:

CHORUS OF BARDS.

DIRGE. SEMI CHORUS.

  Mightiest of the mighty thou!
  Regal pearl-wreaths decked thy brow;
  On thy shield the lion shone,
  Glowing like the setting sun!
  And thy leopard helmet's frown,
  In the day of thy renown,
  O'er thy foemen terror spread,
  Grimly flashing on thy head.
  Master of the fiery steed,
  And the chariot in its speed,--
  As its scythe-wedged wheels of blood
  Through the battle's crimson flood,
  Onward rushing, put to flight
  E'en the stoutest men of might,--
  Age to age shall tell thy fame;
  Thine shall be a deathless name!
  Bards shall raise the song for thee
  In the halls of Chivalry.

  GRAND CHORUS.

  His shall he a noble pyre!
  Robes of gold shall feed the fire;
  Amber, gums, and richest pearl
  On his bed of glory hurl:
  Trophies of his conquering might,
  Skulls of foes, and banners bright,
  Shields, and splendid armour, won
  When the combat-day was done,
  On his blazing death-pile heap,
  Where the brave in glory sleep!
  And the Romans' vaunted pride,
  Their eagle-god, in blood streams dyed,
  Which, amid the battle's roar,
  From their king of ships he tore;
  Hurl it, hurl it in the flame,
  And o'er it raise the loud acclaim!
  Let the captive and the steed
  On his death-pile nobly bleed;
  Let his hawks and war-dogs share
  His glory, as they claimed his care.

  SEMI-CHORUS.

  Silent is his hall of shields
  In Rath-col's dim and woody fields,
  Night-winds round his lone hearth sing
  The fall of Prythian's warlike king!--
  Now his home of happy rest
  Is in the bright isles of the west;
  There, in stately halls of gold,
  He with the mighty chiefs of old,
  Quaffs the horn of hydromel
  To the harp's melodious swell;
  And on hills of living green,
  With airy bow of lightning sheen,
  Hunts the shadowy deer-herd fleet
  In their dim-embowered retreat.
  He is free to roam at will
  O'er sea and sky, o'er heath and hill,
  When our fathers' spirits rush
  On the blast and crimson gush
  Of the cloud-fire, through the storms,
  Like the meteor's brilliant forms,
  He shall come to the heroes' shout
  In the battle's gory rout;
  He shall stand by the stone of death,
  When the captive yields his breath;
  And in halls of revelry
  His dim spirit oft shall be.

  GRAND CHORUS.

  Shout, and fill the hirlass horn,
  Round the dirge-feast quaff till morn;
  Songs and joy sound o'er the heath,
  For he died the warrior's death!
  Garlands fling upon the fire,
  His shall be a noble pyre!
  And his tomb befit a king,
  Encircled with a regal ring
  Which shall to latest time declare,
  That a princely chief lies there,
  Who died to set his country free,
  Who fell for British liberty;
  His renown the harp shall sing
  To mail clad chief and battle-king,
  And fire the mighty warrior's soul
  Long as eternal ages roll!

The Notes to each Tragedy are very abundant. Indeed, they are of the most laborious research.
We quote an extract relative to "grinning skulls" as terrifically interesting:

"The British warriors preserved the bones of their enemies whom they slew; and Strabo says
of the Gauls (who were, as he informs us, far less uncivilized than the Britons, but still
nearly resembled them in their manners and customs,) that when they return from the field of
battle they bring with them the heads of their enemies fastened to the necks of their horses,
and afterwards place them before the gates of their cities. Many of them, after being anointed
with pitch or turpentine, they preserve in baskets or chests, and ostentatiously show them
to strangers, as a proof of their valour; not suffering them to be redeemed, even though offered
for them their weight in gold. This account is also confirmed by Diodorus. Strabo says that
Posidonius declared he saw several of their heads near the gates of some of their towns,--a
horrid barbarism, continued at Temple-bar almost down to the present period."

Lastly, Speaking and Moving Stones:

"Girald Cambrensis gives an account of a speaking-stone at St. David's in Pembrokeshire. 'The
next I shall notice is a very singular kind of a monument, which I believe has never been taken
notice of by any antiquarian. I think I may call it an oracular stone: it rests upon a bed
of rock, where a road plainly appears to have been made, leading to the hole, which at the
entrance is three feet wide, six feet deep, and about three feet six inches high. Within this
aperture, on the right hand, is a hole two feet diameter, perforated quite through the rock
sixteen feet, and running from north to south. In the abovementioned aperture a man might lie
concealed, and predict future events to those that came to consult the oracle, and be heard
distinctly on the north side of the rock, where the hole is not visible. This might make the
credulous Britons think the predictions proceeded solely from the rock-deity. The voice on
the outside was distinctly conveyed to the person in the aperture, as was several times tried.'--Arch.
Soc. Ant. Lond. vol. viii.

"The moving stones, or Logans, were known to the Phoenicians as well us the Britons. Sanconiatho,
in his Phoenician History, says, that Uranus devised the Boetylia, Gr.; Botal or Bothal, Irish;
Bethel, Heb., or stones that moved as having life.--Damascius, an author in the reign of Justinian,
says he had seen many of these Boetylia, of which wonderful things were reported, in Mount
Libanus, and about Heliopolis, in Syria."

The volume, a handsome octavo of more than 500 pages, has been, we perceive, published by subscription:
the list contains about 400 names, with the King at the head. This is sterling patronage, yet
not greater, if so great, as Mr. Pennie deserves. The Preface, we think, somewhat unnecessarily
long: it needed but few words to commend the drama of our early history to the lovers of literature,
among whom we do not reckon him who is insensible to the charms of such plays as Cymbeline,
Julius Caesar, the Winter's Tale, or Macbeth. Mr. Pennie mentions the popularity of Pizarro,
"which faintly attempts to delineate the customs of the Peruvians" as a reason for "the hope
that is in him" respecting the fate of his own tragedies. To our minds, Pizarro is one of the
most essentially dramatic or stage-plays of all our stock pieces. It is of German origin, though
Sheridan is said to have written it over sandwiches and claret in Drury Lane Theatre. The country,
the scenery, and costume have much to do with this stage effect, and even aid the strong excitement
of conflicting passions which pervades every act. Its representation is a scene-shifting, fidgeting
business, but its charms tempt us almost invariably to sit it out.

Returning to Mr. Pennie's Tragedies, we must add that a more delightful collection of notes
was never appended to any poem. Would that all commentators had so assiduously illustrated
their text. Here is none of the literary indolence by which nine out of ten works are disfigured,
nor the fiddle-faddle notes which some folks must have written in their dreams.

       *       *       *       *       *

SNATCHES FROM EUGENE ARAM.

A "Rich" Man.--One who "does not live so as not to have money to lay by."

An old Soldier.--Set me a talking, and let out nothing himself;--old soldier every inch of him.

Poverty--makes some humble but more malignant.

Want.--How many noble natures--how many glorious hopes--how much of the seraph's intellect,
have been crushed info the mire, or blasted into guilt, by the mere force of physical want?

Eloquence.--The magic of the tongue is the most dangerous of all spells.

Cat-kindness.--Paw to-day, and claw to-morrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

A DAY AT LULWORTH.[1]

The abolition of monasteries, which succeeded the former revolution in France, caused a fraternity
of Trappists to seek refuge from the general persecution of religious orders under the protection
of the proprietor of Lulworth Castle, on the coast of Dorsetshire; their patron being a rigid
Catholic, and much governed by the priests. They had been established many years when I visited
them; my curiosity being excited by the current reports of the severities to which their order
subjected them in the habitual discipline of the convent. The day selected for the visit was
quite in harmony with the objects in view; a cold, bleak, cloudy morning, which terminated
in rain, without a single ray of the sun to enliven a December gloom. Mr., now Cardinal, Weld
was paying his temporal and spiritual devotions at the Quirinal Palace and the shrine of St.
Peter; but, in the absence of the family from Lulworth, his huntsman regularly exercised a
small pack of harriers round the neighbouring hills among the goss covers, for the amusement
of a few sportsmen and his own profit. Three of us proceeded one morning to enjoy our customary
diversion; but the bleakness of the wind which swept the hills overlooking the sea induced
the huntsman to keep the hounds at home, and we, in consequence, determined to make up for
our disappointment by riding over to Lulworth. In summer, this little retired spot is an object
of attraction, from its romantic cove and fine castle; while many parties, doubtless, are drawn
there by the savoury idea of boiled lobsters, usually provided for their refreshment at the
small public-house of the village; where "mine host" was wont to rivet the attention of the
juvenile portions of his guests especially, while the older refused him not their ears, to
tales of the castle and the convent, about which, as in most Catholic families of distinction,
and among religious institutions, there hung a cloud of mystery, which the young votaries of
worldly enjoyments love to penetrate.

Leaving our horses at the inn, we walked directly up to the convent situated a little way beyond
the village, impressed with feelings which the stories we had heard unavoidably excited. Nor
were these feelings diminished by the gloomy solitude and silence of the scenery around, interrupted
only by the howling wind and the roaring of the waves, which beat against the precipitous rocks
surrounding the cove, and sustaining the massive walls of the castle.

A plain white-washed building, with few and small windows, apparently created out of a barn
or granary and an old farm-house, was encircled by a high wall enclosing also a muddy courtyard,
and a garden destined to supply the fraternity merely with the necessary herbs and seeds on
which the meagre-fed brethren were nourished. We lifted the heavy knocker of a rude door surmounted
by a crucifix, and a lay-brother, resembling him represented in the Opera of the Duenna, answered
our modest knocking. An order from "the family" was demanded; and for want of it we urged our
special journey (about twenty miles), names, and rank; all of which was transmitted to the
superior, while we remained some time unbidden in the courtyard, where the only sign of life
was the deep barking of an old house-dog, who rivalled his human associates in misanthropy.

At length the creaking hinges of the door were heard again, and, with an injunction to be sparing
of speech, we were bidden to follow the animated shadow which flitted in the owl-light before
us, through various winding passages. Had I been alone, and had that crime which has lately
so shocked humanity been then in existence, I think I should have "pulled in resolution," and
told the miserable cicerone that I would call another time. But, as companionship imparts courage,
on we went, filled with vivid recollections of Mrs. Radcliffe's romances, accompanied with
an urgent curiosity also to see, for the first time, living monks and a real monastery. One
of the former passed us in our way, clothed in the dingy habit of his order fastened round
the waist with a twisted cord. He bowed as he passed; and we were told, in a whisper, that
he was recently arrived; and from not associating with the rest of the brethren, and having
a separate apartment, he was supposed to be a man of rank, known only to the superior, and
concerning whom conjecture was rife, but no inquiry permitted. What this recluse really was
my story will hereafter disclose.

The general furniture of the convent appeared to be neat and clean, but of coarse materials
and rude construction, while its scantiness evinced either the penury of the institution, or
the denial which formed part of the monastic discipline peculiar to the order of La Trappe.
There might be a third explanation of the ill-lighted bareness of the walls and floors, together
with the general aspect of privation and devotion, an explanation which occurred to us subsequently--there
might have been studied effect and deception in their display before visiters.

We entered the refectory and the dormitory, neither of which bore any sign of luxury, nor even
of ordinary comfort. The needful repose of man seemed scarcely provided for in the one, nor
the "creature comforts" in the other. Meat was forbidden, except when prescribed for the health
of the inmates. Vegetable broth, bread, and water, formed, we were told, the chief resources
of the culinary department of the convent; and, in the very act of enjoying these, around the
disconsolate-looking table, the superior was accustomed to remind the brotherhood occasionally
during the repast not to indulge the appetite for food, so as to divert their thoughts for
an instant from heaven. This spiritual memento was introduced by the rap of a stout oaken-stick
upon the table; when instantly, every hand raised to the mouth was arrested and held still
where it was, until a second rap permitted it to proceed in its carnal office, the interval
being employed in silent ejaculation to the Deity, or perhaps, with some, in "curses not loud
but deep" against the inexorable superior, who so compelled them to mortify a not unnatural desire.

In the dormitory a similar mortification nightly awaited the unconscious sleepers, although
"upon uneasy pallets stretching them," in the occasional tinkling of an obtrusive bell, that
peremptorily hurried them from their recumbent position to the cold stones of the chapel, where
on bended knees they were obliged to pray and meditate.

From the refectory and the dormitory we were conducted to the chapel, with renewed injunctions
to ask no questions while there, and to preserve the strictest silence. Here we found about
thirty, I think, of the brethren, in their coarse black habits and cord belts, with rosary,
shaved crowns, and fixed eyes; some kneeling, and others prostrate upon the stony floor,--picturesquely
grouged, à la Rembrandt, about the steps of the altar and other parts of the chapel. All were
silent and motionless, and regarded our intrusion no more than if they were so many marble
statues. Some of the monks were old and haggard, and others young and better conditioned than
might be conceived of men fed, or rather starved, as they were represented to be. Their features
appeared generally to be coarse and vulgar. The chapel itself was perfectly plain, and unadorned
but by a few of the customary figures and paintings, representing disgusting situations of
saints and martyrs under voluntary torture and privation. Lamps that "shed a pale and ineffectual
light," crucifixes, and images of the Virgin and Son, were duly scattered about the niches
of the chapel.

From the chapel we were conducted to the superior's room, a small scantily-furnished apartment,
with however an appearance of greater comfort than elsewhere about the building, from the presence
of a plain chair and table, some religious books, a cot, and a little fire. The superior himself
possessed somewhat more of the aspect of a gentleman than the rest of the brethren, as well
as the dim light of a lamp allowed us to observe his figure; of which certainly, whatever might
have been his mode of living, rotundity formed no such feature as I have seen among the jolly
monks in Spain and Portugal. He related to us the habits of his order, from which we learnt
further particulars than had been related by the cicerone. Silence seemed to be the rule of
the establishment during the whole twenty-four hours, the exceptions being very few: one of
the brethren, we were told, had never been known to speak for about thirty years, in accordance
with a vow, and was supposed to have become dumb.

When one monk met another, the salutation was limited to this simple expression--"Brother,
we must die." And lest this fact should not have been sufficiently kept in recollection, a
grave was constantly open in the burying-ground at hand, the digging of which was a source
of bodily exercise and recreation to the brethren; a new one being always made when a tenant
was found for that which already gaped to receive him.

I need scarcely observe, that from the rigid silence vowed and practised, the order of La Trappe
includes no females in its over-zealous ordinances. The only books allowed those who could
read were Missals and the Bible, which were constantly in their hands.

Medical aid was not denied, when occasion required it, from one qualified to practise among
the Weld colony in the village, who of course was no heretic; but the ordinary management of
the materia medica, furnished by the garden, rested with such of the fraternity as were gifted
in the art of healing.

In addition to all the mortification of the flesh pointed out to us, we were given to understand
that the twisted cords around the waist were frequently employed in self-inflicted scourgings
at the altar, to which the superior exhorted the brethren as a penance for past, and humiliation
for future, sins; a ceremony which, by all accounts, was in some instances unjustly taken out
of the hands of the public executioner, while in others, perhaps, the cord might not at all
have been misapplied if its adjustment to the neck, instead of the waist, had been anticipated
by the same functionary.--Metropolitan.

[1] See Mirror, vol. xvi p. 201.

      *      *      *       *       *

COLONEL BRERETON.

  Through the still midnight--hark'--that startling sound
  Tells of deed of blood! a soldier's hand
  With aim too true himself hath reft of life!
  *    *    *   Beneath that roof
  For many days none had heard sounds of gladness.
  He was distressed--each fond retainer then
  Softened his voice to whispers--each pale face
  Did but reflect the sadness fixed in his:
  Save where the two--two fair and lovely ones,
  Too young for guilt or sorrow, or to know
  Such words as wordlings know them--save where they,
  Pranking in childhood's headlong gaiety,
  Sent the loud shout--like laughter through the tomb--
  And mocked his anguish, with their joyousness.
  Oh, that in sleep, some cry of joy or pain
  From forth those lips had bursten piercingly,
  When that sad Man his daring hand had lain,
  Maddened with hours of musing, on his death!
  Then would great Nature, o'er the soldier's heart
  Her power have all recovered; his seared soul
  With gushing tears enflooded, been restored;
  Mistaken Honour, false chivalric Pride,
  Flown with the Tempter;--life have been preserved,--
  And unendangered an immortal soul.

Gentleman's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SELECT BIOGRAPHY.

THE LATE MR. MUNDEN.

(With Recollections.)

Great actors have two lives, or rather they have double deaths. Their leave-taking of the public,
their "retirement," as biographers call it, is one death; since a playgoer then considers an
actor dead "to all intents and purposes"--a very non est. Public regrets are showered about
your great actor, and by some he is forgotten with the last trump of his praise. He "retires:"
that is, he looks out for a cottage in the country, far removed from his former sphere of action,
(as plain John Fawcett did the other day,) or he diverges to a snug box in the suburbs of London,
still lingering about the great stage, as did honest Joseph Munden about seven years since.
People in the boxes or pit look out for his successor in the bills of the play--then say "we
ne'er shall look upon his like again," (the greatest, though perhaps the most equivocal, tribute
ever paid to genius,) but a few months reconcile them to the loss; they approve the successor,
though they deplore the change, "and though the present they regret, they are grateful for
the past." Then comes your actor's second farewell--his final exit--and "last of all comes
death." A line or two in a newspaper tells you that Munden died on Monday last. One exclaims
"I thought he had been dead these seven years;" but another, of more grateful and reflective
temperament, throws down the "diurnal" to lament the death of the man as he had hitherto regretted
the loss of the actor. His former regret too is resuscitated. A mere paragraph rounds the little
life of your actor, his entrances and exits, and he who "appeared" on one stage in 1790, as
Sir Francis Gripe and Jemmy Jumps, disappeared from that greater stage, or all the world, as
Joseph Munden. We have often thought these farewells of actors must be with them dismal affairs,
especially in old age. They must remind them of a last farewell, and we know

  The sense of death is most in apprehension.

But, is this fitting for the obituary of a comic actor? Yes, we reply, and as both are but
occasions of appeal to the passions, we may think the death of a tragedian less striking than
the former, since all tragedies end with death, and death in itself is but a scene of tragedy.

Munden was the son of a poulterer in Brooke's Market, Holborn, where he was born in the year
1758. His father died soon afterwards, leaving his widow with slender means, and Munden was
thrust upon the world to seek his fortune at twelve years of age. He was placed in an apothecary's
shop, but soon left it for an attorney's office. Perhaps, like Dr. Wolcot, he fancied the clinking
of the pestle and mortar said "Kill 'em again! kill 'em again." From the attorney's office,
he "fell off," as Hamlet's Ghost would say, to a law-stationer's shop, and became "a hackney
writer:" the technicality needs not explanation: to hack at anything is neither the road to
fame nor a good meal. He was apprenticed in Chancery Lane: his master died and was succeeded
by an older man, of the square-toed fraternity, who taxed Munden with being a Macaroni more
than a tradesman. Munden, in consequence, parted from his master, and once more returned to
the office of a solicitor. They who remember Munden, a staid-dressing man in later years, may
smile at his early observance of the glass of fashion.

