Without entering into any analysis of the various forms of hallucination of which many able
psychologists and physicians of the insane have treated, let us turn to the more ordinary cases
in which an image of the mind is projected on the external world so as to appear real. The
roots of such a phenomenon are strictly organic, and belong to the centres in which the image
is formed, as we have already observed; this image sometimes stands out in such vivid relief
on the psychical space that it seems to be an external, not, as it usually appears in less
vivid form, an internal intuition. The hallucinations which Nicolai describes himself to have
experienced may be taken as a classical example. When Andral was returning from an autopsy,
he clearly saw the corpse stretched before him as he entered his room. Goethe, Byron, and many
others, have been affected in the same way. I myself have occasionally had hallucinations of
the kind when in a perfectly healthy condition of mind and body; one, in particular, of a very
vivid character, occurred when I awoke one morning and seemed to see a tall and venerable priest
entering my chamber. It is needless to multiply examples; similar facts abound in classic books
in English, French, German, and other languages. Let us rather study the phenomenon and trace
its origin.

It is clear on the one side that the images of the hallucinations of sight or hearing appear
to have a real existence, so that they may be observed and studied with ease; and it is also
certain that this image has no external existence, and is simply a cerebral fact, due to the
organs adapted for perception. Without considering the cause of the external projection, to
which I have already alluded, since perhaps its physiological and psychical genesis is not
yet fully understood, we must consider the image, so far as it is believed to be real.

In cases of normal hallucination the reason is intact, and the observer is conscious of the
illusion, yet notwithstanding this positive judgment the image has an appearance of complete
reality. The cause of this illusion is evidently the same as that of the illusions of dreams,
and of the origin of myth; namely, that everywhere and always the mental or natural phenomenon
and its image are respectively entified. In the normal waking state, habit and other causes
on which we have touched render our ideas of things altogether immaterial, as merely psychical
forms and representative signs, but when the excitement of the organs increases, so as to present
them to the consciousness as objective images, then, owing to the interruption of the ordinary
process, they are suddenly entified, and appear as an external phenomenon. Hallucinations are
therefore explained by our theory, and it is further confirmed by the hallucinations of animals,
and especially by the delirium of dogs and other animals affected by hydrophobia, or by cerebral
excitement artificially produced by alcoholic and exhilarating drugs.

If a man is habitually subject to many and various hallucinations, and his sane judgment esteems
them to be such, they are undoubtedly unusual phenomena, but they do not in any way injure
the rational exercise of the mind. It is only when he believes the images to be real that the
abnormal state begins, termed delirium if it is of short duration, and madness if it is permanent.
We must examine hallucination under these new conditions.

In the delirium of fever, or in various forms of disease, the cerebral excitement is so great
that not only the deliberate exercise of reason, but the power of estimating external objects
is lost, and the organs of the senses are so completely altered, that the perceptions themselves
are exaggerated and confused. In this state hallucination reaches its highest point, and the
patient sees, hears, and feels, directly or indirectly, strange and terrible things: wild beasts,
enemies of all kind, torments; or again, pleasing and agreeable images. Independently of the
alteration in various sensations produced by the morbid alteration of the special organs which
induce them, the real cause of this phenomenon consists in the objection of mental sensations
and images. Such an objection of images or sensations, considered in the act which transforms
them into a reality, depends on the same cause as all other acts of perception; there is always
an entification of the phenomenon, which in this case is a vivid internal image, appearing
to be external and real.

The entification of images is still more direct and powerful because in this morbid crisis
the necessary corrections made by reason cannot take place, since the sick man is for the time
deprived of it, and he is in fact a dreamer, whose condition is intensified by abnormal excitement.
Entification is now displayed in its nude and native state, and serves to explain the constant
mental process, and the true nature of the representations of the intellect. The transition
is easy from delirium to madness, for although an insane person is not always delirious, but
sometimes calm and composed, yet there is a fundamental resemblance to delirium in the change
in his states of consciousness and its relative organs, which imply a constant hallucination.
The most famous and acute physicians of the insane estimate that eighty out of a hundred insane
persons are subject to hallucinations. The morbid condition which generates them is also produced
by debility, by anæmia, and the senile decay of the cerebral organs, since they occur in dementia,
idiocy, and old age, and the physiological and mental causes are the same; the power of fixing
the attention and governing the thoughts is diminished, owing to the weakening of the vivid
consciousness of the external world, produced by a torpidity of the afferent organs. In these
cases the recollections which are not altogether lost sometimes reappear as hallucinations.
The hallucinations of madness, in its various forms of dementia, idiocy, and dotage, are all,
apart from their morbid and organic conditions, derived from the same source which produces
myths, dreams, and normal hallucinations; the objective entification of images is due to the
innate faculty of the perception, which leads to the immediate personification of any given
phenomenon. We have shown that, given a sensation, there naturally arises the implicit notion
of a subject and a cause, and this natural impulse is further developed by the influence of
heredity; both in man and animals the constant and powerful sense of individual life is infused
into the phenomenon perceived.

The various forms of madness throw a clearer light on this necessary and primitive fact of
human and animal perception. The act of sensation may then be said to be under its own direction,
and generates itself in the automatic exercise of the brain, as in dreams, without the explicit,
disturbing, and modifying influence of reflection, and the habit of rational analysis. The
act of sensation is spontaneously completed and developed in and with its own constituents,
and since it is isolated from other modes and exercises of thought, its real nature appears.
The hallucinations of madness, produced by the mental realization of images, either detached
or in association, prove that all our mental images or ideas have a tendency in themselves
to become real objects of consciousness; with this difference, that a sane man recognizes these
mental entifications by their mobility and incessant alterations, which contrast with the fixity
and permanence of external and cosmic phenomena.

The following considerations will confirm the truth of these facts. In our advanced state of
civilization, thought may, after so many ages' exercise, almost be said to have become part
of the organism by the indisputable effect of heredity; and the phenomenon of the recurrence
to memory of past facts and distant places is obvious and intelligible, since our judgment
of them is never subject to illusion, or only in rare instances and in abnormal conditions.
But this judgment is less obvious and easy in the case of primitive savages who have advanced
little beyond the innate exercise of the intelligence. The rational analysis of the states
of consciousness has not been made, and hence their special and general distinctions are seen
with difficulty or not seen at all. Consequently the primitive and natural amazement of man
must have been great, when by day, and still more in the lonely silence of night, persons,
places, and his own past acts recurred to his mind, and he was able to contemplate them as
if they were actually present. He was incapable of giving an explanation of this marvellous
fact in the rational and reflective manner which is possible to psychologists and to all civilized
men. This revival of the past appeared to him as a fact in its simple and spontaneous reality;
he made no attempt to explain it, but it was presented to his consciousness like all other
natural facts. The only explanation of the phenomenon appeared to him to be that these images
did not recur to the mind by the necessary action of the brain, but that by their own spontaneous
power they were recalled to take their part within his breast: he supposed the phenomenon to
be objective, not subjective.

Prophecy, for instance, was often supposed to be a recollection, and some primitive accounts
of the genesis of things, handed down by tradition, were reputed to be inspired, and objectively
dictated to the mind. The Platonic theory of reminiscence relies on these conceptions. The
power which recalled the images to memory was supposed to be external, and identical with that
which raises up the images of dreams; primitive man traced a fanciful identity between the
phenomena of memory and of dreams, and the distinction between them was not supposed to consist
in the actual images, but in the modes of their appearance in the waking or sleeping state.
The images assumed in the memory a relative reality, somewhat resembling those of dreams. In
fact, some savages do not clearly distinguish between the images of these states, and see little
difference between the spontaneous recollection of things, the fancy, and dreaming. This also
occurs in children, who at a very early age often call by name absent persons and things which
recur to their memory; and on the other hand they do not distinguish the facts of real life
from those of dreams. I have observed this fact in several children.

Among primitive peoples it often happens that an object with which they are unfamiliar, but
which has some analogy with those with which they are acquainted, becomes associated with the
latter, and is constituted into a compound being, endowed with life. The Esquimaux believed
the vessels commanded by Ross to be alive, since they moved without oars. When Cook touched
at New Zealand, the inhabitants supposed his ship to be a whale with sails. The Bosjesmanns
ascribed life to a waggon, and imagined that it required the nourishment of grass. When an
Arauco saw a compass, he believed that it was an animal; and the same belief has been held
by savages of musical instruments, such as grinding organs, which play tunes mechanically.
Herbert Spencer mentions similar behaviour in some men belonging to one of the hill tribes
in India; when they saw Dr. Hooker pull out a spring measuring tape, which went back into its
case of itself, they were terrified and ran away, convinced that it was a snake. From these
facts, which might be multiplied indefinitely, it not only appears that everything is spontaneously
animated by man, but also that the images of his memory are fused with those which are actually
present, since their respective factors are esteemed to be equally real. This primitive objection
of the images of the memory also occurs in the mythical representations of dreams, which, as
the images of absent objects, have much in common with the images of the memory. In fact, all
peoples, as we have seen, have believed in the reality of dreams.

The North American Indians believe in the existence of two souls, one of which remains in the
body while the other wanders at pleasure during the dream. The New Zealander supposes that
the dreamer's soul leaves his body, and that he meets the things of which he dreams in the
course of his wanderings. The Dyak also believes that the soul is absent during sleep, and
that the things seen in dreams really occur. Garcilasso asserts that this was likewise the
Peruvians' belief. A tribe in Java abstains from waking a sleeper, since his soul is absent
in dreams. The Karens say that dreams are what the là or soul sees during sleep. This theory
is also found among more civilized peoples, as for instance in the Vedic philosophy and the
Kabbala, and it has come down to our days among the common people, and even among those of
some culture.

One belief connected with dreams, generally diffused among all savage and civilized peoples,
is that of the appearance of dead men, or of their ghosts. Of this all the traditions and popular
myths in the world are full. Such a belief, first excited by the vision of the dead in dreams,
is easily aroused in the savage or uneducated mind, even when he recalls to memory while he
is alone, and especially at night, the image of one whom he loved in life. Affection, and the
lively emotion of sorrow and desire give such a life-like appearance to these images that they
become objectively present to the mind, to console the mourner, or, on the other hand, to threaten
the murderer. I have more than once heard persons of all classes, after the death of children,
of a husband or wife, whom they have injured or imagine that they have injured, either during
life or by not fulfilling their last wishes, declare in all good faith that the form of the
dead is often present to their memory and visible while they are awake; thus implying that
the dead mercifully appear to comfort their mourning friends, or else to reproach them for
not fulfilling their promises. In a word, these images did not seem to them to be subjective,
and an ordinary phenomenon of the memory, but objective and personal apparitions within the
soul. The cases are not rare in certain dispositions of mind, in which the projection of these
images on the memory gradually produces madness. We must not forget that psychical phenomena
in general are very differently regarded by the savage and the civilized man, since the latter
is accustomed to analysis, and to the real distinctions of things. If this canon is forgotten
we shall fall into grave errors in the attempt to interpret the evolution and primitive history
of thought and of humanity.

We shall more readily understand the nature and genesis of all these hallucinations, and of
normal and abnormal illusions, if we study another phenomenon of frequent occurrence which
I myself have often had occasion to observe. I mean the illusion or hallucination which does
not consist in the absolute projection of an internal image with an external semblance of reality,
but which presents it in the twilight as an object of uncertain form, either in a room or out
of doors. It often happens, as I and others have experienced from childhood, that a dress or
other object lying by chance on a chair, or on the ground, or hanging on a piece of furniture
or a peg, seen in connection with the other things near it, is transformed into a person or
animal, in a sitting or standing posture or lying at full length, as if it had been a spectre
or phantasm; somewhat like the figures which we all take pleasure in tracing in the strange
and mobile forms of clouds. The fantastic figure sometimes appears instantaneously and at the
first glance, sometimes it is only gradually made out; but in both cases, as we shall see,
its genesis is the same. Although in the former case that which in the latter is gradually
developed appears to be developed all at once, yet in reality it passes through the same stages.

Let us now consider the second mode; and in order to be perfectly accurate, I will describe
one out of many apparitions which I saw so recently that its gradual formation is retained
distinctly in my memory. On a small three-legged table beside my bed there was a little oval
mirror, on which hung a woman's cap, which fell partly over the glass: there was also an easy
chair, on which I had thrown my shirt before going to bed, while my shoes were as usual on
the floor. I awoke towards morning, and as I chanced to look round the large room, in the uncertain
light of a night-light which was almost burnt out, my eyes fell upon the easy chair. Immediately
I seemed to see a head above it, corresponding to the mirror, and a vague and confused image
of a person seated there. As I am accustomed to do in similar cases, I closed my eyes for a
little, and on reopening them I looked at the appearance with attention and interest; this
time the person or phantasm had a less confused outline, although I did not see the form distinctly,
nor the features, nor its precise position. Yet in this second observation, I obtained an idea
of it as a whole, and in details.

On further examination the face and person stood out more clearly, and the features became
more distinct, the longer I looked. Each accidental fold or shadow on the cap was transformed
into bright eyes, strongly marked eyebrows, into the nose, mouth, hair, beard, and neck; so
that as I went on I had before me a perfectly chiselled face corresponding to the type which
had first flashed across my mind as the confused impression of a face conveyed by the cap and
mirror. The same process of evolution was pursued with respect to the limbs, the breast, arms,
legs, and feet; parts of the body which at first appeared to be vague and indeterminate gradually,
and as if by enchantment issued distinctly from every fold of the shirt, from every shadow,
angle, and line, so as to compose what Dante would call una persona certa. Finally I saw before
me a man dressed in white, of an athletic form, sitting in the easy chair and looking fixedly
at me: the whole body was in harmony with the head, which had first resulted from the rude
resemblance to a human face. The image appeared to me so real and distinct that on rising from
the bed and gradually approaching it, its form did not vanish, even when I was near enough
to touch the object which produced it. An analysis showed that the features, limbs, and position
corresponded in every point with the folds and relative position of the articles of dress which
had formed it. A similar process, issuing in such apparitions, is a frequent cause of illusions,
which in the case of ingenuous, superstitious, and primitive peoples, may lead to the firm
conviction that they have seen an apparition. This has certainly been the case in primitive
and even in civilized times, and has given occasion to myths, legends, and the worship of tutelary
deities and saints.

If we consider the causes of such a phenomenon, and analyze its elements and motives, we shall,
I think, discover that it goes far to explain many normal and abnormal hallucinations.

In the first place, there is in man a deep sense of the analogies of things, partly developed
by the organic tendency to regard any given object of perception as subjective and causative,
and to infuse into it our own animal life, a tendency confirmed by education and the practice
of daily life. Such analogies, which find their expression in metaphor, are very vivid and
persistent in the vulgar and in those persons who approximate most closely to the primitive
ingenuousness of the intelligence. The most frequent analogies are between natural phenomena
and objects and animal forms. Analogies are also found between the various forms of inanimate
natural objects, but the former are more usual, and especially those which refer to the human
form. There are numerous and familiar instances of the names of men or women given to mountains,
rocks, and crags, because they have some remote resemblance to some human feature or limb.
Every day we may be called upon to see a face in some mountain, stone, or trunk of a tree,
in the outline of the landscape, a wreath of mist or cloud. We are told to observe the eyes,
nose, mouth, the arms and legs, and so on.[35] Every one must remember to have often heard
of such resemblances, even if he has not himself observed them. All the facts and laws which
we have observed explain why the sudden appearance of some vague form in an uncertain light,
reminding us in a confused way of the human figure, instantly causes us to trace a resemblance
to man rather than to any thing else. It must be noted, as my experiment has already proved,
that in this first sketch of a phantasm in human form, a general, though indefinite type of
the whole figure has spontaneously arisen, to which it is made to correspond. This is the key
to the ultimate perception of the phenomenon. What may be called the prophetic type of the
figure which will afterwards appear to us in all its details, although it may seem to be produced
by external resemblance, is in fact the product of the mind, which has been unconsciously exercised
in its construction.

In fact, out of the immense variety in faces, and in the general form of persons, of gestures,
fashions of dress, attitudes in rest and motion, which are indelibly impressed on the memory,
every one constructs general types for himself; types which are revealed in the allusions made
in our daily conversation to the resemblances which we are continually observing. These remain
in the memory, with all the manifold resemblances, as well as the ideal of certain types in
which the numerous forms we have seen and compared are formulated. We know that when the memory
has been dormant, which is often the case, it may be awakened by the stimulus of association,
of analogy, or of will, so as to reproduce the forgotten ideas and sensations which are thus
again presented to the consciousness. When, therefore, one or more objects are seen in an uncertain
light, so as to present a confused appearance of the human form, its general lineaments are
unconsciously made by us to correspond with the human type already existing in the memory,
and this type presides in the subsequent composition of the reproducing artist who observes
the phantasm. The unconscious mental labour which is accomplished in the reproducing cellules
of past impressions and ideas by the instantaneous creation of the type, gathers round this
type the form and features corresponding with it, which had its earlier existence in our own
experience. The external pose and indefinite modification of the objects appear to correspond
with the gradual mnemonic revival of the typal form, and they reciprocally stimulate and react
on each other. For while a fold, shadow, or line of the objects seen appear to correspond with
some feature of the mnemonic type, on the other hand, a fold, shadow, or outline of the object
recalls a feature of the inward phantasm composed by the memory.

In this process the mnemonic details which are in accordance with the pre-existing type, and
sometimes also in accordance with some remarkable face or person which was the first to present
itself to the mind, serve as a model for the accidental form of the external object or objects
which correspond to it; this in its turn recalls features which remain in the memory, and in
this way the external form of this particular phantasm is gradually chiselled into full relief.
The more intently we regard the object which is modified to suit the mental image, the more
perfectly they agree together, and the apparition stands out with more vivid distinctness.
This will be the experience of every one to whom such a phenomenon appears, and a dispassionate
analysis of all the phases of this fact must fully confirm our theory.

Such a fact, which is implicitly included in the general law we have laid down for the origin
of myth, will also as I think throw further light on the origin of many hallucinations, both
in normal conditions of mind and in the abnormal state of nervous disorders. The different
appearances of objects, animals, and men, the voices, words, songs, and conversations seen
and heard in these hallucinations, are produced, by an internal impulse as well as by a stimulus
from without; they are internal in the images and sensation already unconsciously impressed
upon the memory, and they are external in the accidentally modified form in which they occur
in sensible objects, so that they act reciprocally as an incentive and impulse to each other.

If in normal hallucinations the vividness of the internal image is in certain physiological
conditions projected outwardly, the configuration and accidental form of the external objects
contribute to complete the composition in accordance with the nature and design of this internal
image. Sometimes the physiological conditions of hallucination are so powerful that it is at
once produced by the appearance of an object which has some analogy with the mental image.
Whatever may be the genesis and primitive character of the idea of space, and its psychical
and physiological relations to actual space--a question which has been the theme of so much
discussion in our time--it is certain that first habit and then hereditary influence cause
us to have the sensation and apprehension of a psychical space, which may be termed artificial
and congenital, and upon which the various impressions of the senses are spontaneously projected.
Of this there is an evident proof in the fact that if we look at the sun or any bright object,
such as the windows of a room in the day time, and then close our eyes, so as to make the vision
of external space impossible, the image of the sun, sometimes of a different colour, or of
the window, is projected into the darkness at some distance from us, and moves about this psychical
space. This phenomenon also occurs in the subjective sensations of hearing, since the sounds
do not appear to be close to the ear, but at a distance. We are not here called upon to discuss
the causes which generate the appearance of this psychical space, but the fact is indisputable;
so that conversely it becomes intelligible how the internal image may be projected in the same
way, or may at least appear to be externally projected in hallucinations. This surprising phenomenon
is only a modification of the ordinary exercise of the psychical and physiological faculties
in the projection of images; of which, after the idea of space has been formed by primitive
experience, habit and education are the chief factors.

Hallucinations, in the cases observed above, are due to an external impulse; and this is especially
the case in madness and other nervous disorders; since a critical observation and clear discernment
of things is wanting, some object of vision, a voice, phrases, or sounds are much more apt
to act as a stimulus to a vast field of visual hallucinations, or to a long succession of sentences
and speeches. It is not, therefore, wonderful that in an ecstasy, for instance, in which all
the faculties are concentrated on very few ideas and images, or perhaps on one only, every
external sign, whether obvious to sight or hearing, combined with the mnemonic effort already
explained, is modified to correspond with these vivid and exalted images; thus constituting
the wonderful phenomenon of ecstasy. In such a case the ecstatic phenomenon in persons subject
to these nervous affections is often invested with fresh wonders by the additional sensations
of light and subjective colours; this is not uncommon even in persons of a sane mind and body,
but undoubtedly it is more frequently the case in those whose mental and physical conditions
are abnormal. It is not rare to hear an ecstatic person recount divine visions, suffused with
extraordinary light and glory.

In order to contribute to the researches of others into the nature of this phenomenon, I must
be permitted--not from vanity, but from a desire that my own imperfections may serve the cause
of science however slightly--to relate some facts, personal to myself, which bear upon the
question, facts of very general experience. From my childhood I have had, both by day and night,
various subjective sensations of light which I was, as a person of perfectly sane mind, able
to observe dispassionately. After reading for a long while, or when fatigued by sleeplessness,
mental excitement, or some temporary gastric derangement, I see clear flames circling before
my eyes. These are in a small, oblong form, arranged at brief intervals in concentric curves,
and composing a moving garland projected upon space, tinged with a yellowish light, shading
into vivid blue. Sometimes this figure is changed for stars, twinkling in a vast and remote
space, as in a firmament. In addition to this phenomenon, I have about twenty times in the
course of my life experienced other subjective and more extraordinary sensations of light,
not unknown to others. This phenomenon occurs when I am in a normal condition of health, and
always begins with a confusion of sight, so that I am unable to see objects and the faces of
people distinctly; after which everything within the range of vision becomes mobile and tremulous.
This state continues for ten minutes, and then clear and distinct vision returns. Next a lucid
circle, zig-zagged in acute angles, appears close to the eyes, now on the right, now on the
left. It moves in a somewhat serpentine course, and is broken in the centre of the lower half.
It withdraws from the eye into subjective space, and the shining band of which it is composed
gradually loses its sharp angles, and becomes wider and undulated, while still in motion.

Another remarkable sensation follows. The shining band, which has dilated until it is withdrawn
from the eyes, whether closed or open, to an apparent distance of several yards, becomes tinted
with all the colours of the rainbow, standing out in such vivid splendour on the dark background
that I have never seen them equalled in nature. Indeed the beauty of this phenomena is amazing.
The band, inlaid with various colours, now occupies the whole space, maintaining an equal distance
from the closed eyes, and moving continually with a rhythmic undulation, while it constantly
becomes more vivid. The moving circle continues to dilate until it slowly fades, and at last
completely disappears. From its beginning to the end, the vision occupies from twenty to twenty-five
minutes.

Throughout the phenomenon I continue to be perfectly collected and free in mind, so that I
can observe it in all its details with perfect calmness, and can also impart my observations
to the persons with whom I happen to be. Only when the subjective sensation has ceased, I feel
an obscure pain in the brow of the eye in which the phenomenon occurred. This is readily explained
by the well-known interlacing of the nerves, and the action of the hemispheres.

Supposing that such phenomena occur, as they more readily do, in persons predisposed to nervous
affections, although not insane, in times and in a society agitated by religious excitement,
or in persons habitually contemplative and occupied with spiritual images and thoughts; if
in moments of ecstatic emotion they should perceive, in addition to the images proper to such
conditions, these circling flames, which is very likely to be the case, or the iridescent aureole
we have described, they would certainly accept and glorify the heavenly vision revealed to
them. The revolution of the bright stars or iridescent band, preceded by the obscurity of vision
which accompanies the ordinary ecstatic hallucination, would certainly be ascribed to the saints
or angels, and would thus become more supernatural and consonant with the believer's idea of
heaven; and these very subjective sensations might often produce the ecstatic vision, so ready
to appear in the morbid conditions which lead to hallucination.

According to the process previously described, by which the phenomenon of natural hallucinations
is produced by an external stimulus, these luminous phenomena would revive the memory of angelic
and saintly forms, of which men were so profoundly conscious in times of religious excitement,
and would be regarded as their external signs, while they would at the same time stimulate
the appearance of such angelic visions. Ultimately this would lead to the vast drama of celestial
hallucinations described for us in the accounts of many ecstatic visions. They do not only
occur in modern religions, but in those of the old heathen, and in the rude and unformed beliefs
of savages. The ethnography of the most savage peoples of our time teaches us that the origin
of very many myths is to be found in normal and abnormal hallucinations, and in the luminous
visions which conform to their mental conditions. Persons subject to nervous affections, from
simple epilepsy to madness and idiocy, were and still are supposed to be inspired, and endowed
with the power of prophesying and working miracles; they are also venerated for relating the
strange visions presented to them in the crisis of their disorder. Africa, barbarous Asia,
America, Oceania, and the ignorant and superstitious people in Europe itself, abound with such
facts; they have occurred and are likely to recur in civilized peoples of all times, including
our own, as we know only too well.

We have thus reduced the primitive origin of myth, of dreams, of all illusions, of normal and
abnormal hallucinations, to one unique fact and genesis, to a fundamental principle; that is,
to the primitive and innate entification of the phenomenon, to whatever sensation it may be
referred. This fact is not exclusively human in its simple expression and genesis, since it
occurs in the lower animals; evidently in those which are nearest to man, and by the necessary
logic of induction in all others, according to their sensations and modes of perception. In
the vast historic drama of opinions, beliefs, religions, mythical and mytho-scientific theories
which are developed in all peoples; and again, in the infinite variety of dreams, illusions,
mystic and nervous hallucinations, all depend on the primitive and unique fact which is also
common to the animal kingdom, and identical with it; in man this is also the condition of science
and knowledge. I think that this conclusion is not unworthy of the consideration of wise men
and honest critics, and that it will contribute to establish the definitive unity of the general
science of psychology, considered in the vast animal kingdom as a whole, and in connection
with the great theory of evolution.

This primitive act of perception, the radical cause and genesis of all mythical representations,
and the physical and intellectual condition of science itself, is also one of the factors and
the æsthetic germ of all the arts. The constraining power which generates the intentional subjectivity
of the phenomenon, and the entification of images, ideas, and numerous normal and abnormal
appearances, also unconsciously impels man to project the image into a design, a sculpture,
or a monument. Since an idea or emotion naturally tends, as we have seen, to take an external
form in speech, gesture, or some other outward fact; so also it tends to manifest itself materially
and by means of various arts, and to take the permanent form of some object. It is embodied
in this way, as it was embodied in fetishes in the way described in the foregoing chapters.
Owing to this innate cause, and by the instinct of imitation which results from it, children
as well as savages always attempt some rude sketch of natural objects, or of the fanciful images
to which they have given rise. Drawings of animals and some other objects are found among the
lowest savages, such as the Tasmanians and Australians. Nor is this fact peculiar to the lower
historic races, and to those which are still in existence, but it is also to be found in the
dwellings and remains of prehistoric man; carvings on stone of very ancient date have been
found, coeval with extinct and fossil animals, prior to the age of our flora and fauna and
to the present conformation of land and water. There are many clear proofs of the extreme antiquity
of the primitive impulse to imitative arts. A stag's meta-tarsal bone, on which there was a
carving of two ruminants, was found in the cave of Savigny: in a cave at Eyzies there was a
fragmentary carving of two animals on two slabs of schist; at La Madelaine there were found
two so-called staves of office, on which were representations of a horse, of reindeer, cattle,
and other animals; two outlines of men, one of a fore-arm, and one of a naked man in a stooping
position, with a short staff on his shoulder; there is also the outline of a mammoth on a sheet
of ivory; a statuette of a thin woman without arms, found by M. Vibraye at Laugerie-Basse,
and known by the name of the immodest Venus; a drawing representing a man, or so-called hunter,
armed with a bow, and pursuing a male auroch, going with its head down and of a fierce aspect;
the man is perfectly naked, and wears a pointed beard. Other designs of the chase and of animals
afford a clear proof of the remote period at which the primitive instinct towards the imitative
arts existed.

It is peculiar to man to portray things and animals, and to erect monuments out of a superstitious
feeling, or to glorify an individual or the nation; the bower-birds and some cognate species
may perhaps be regarded as an exception, since they show a certain sense of beauty, and an
extrinsic satisfaction in gay colours, which indeed appears in many animals. But art in the
true sense and in its essential principle are the act and product of man alone, of which I
have demonstrated the cause and comparative reasons in another work, so that it is unnecessary
to repeat them here. Some rare cases indicate an artistic construction which is not an essential
part of animal functions, and the sense of form and colour occurs in some species. But this
only shows that there exist in the animal kingdom the roots of every art and sentiment peculiar
to man, subsequently perfected by him in an exclusive and reflex manner, and this confirms
the general truths of heredity and evolution.

When primitive man draws or carves objects, he does not merely obey the innate impulse to give
an external form to the image already in his mind, but while satisfying the æsthetic sentiment
which actuates him, he is conscious of some mysterious power and superstitious influence. This
sentiment is not only apparent in our own children, but among nearly all savages, of which
many instances might be given; some of them are even afraid to look at a portrait, and shrink
from it as from a living person.

As time went on, a belief in spirits was developed from causes already mentioned, the rude
theory of incarnation followed as its corollary, and this sentiment was naturally confirmed
by incised and sculptured images; for since they supposed a spirit to be present in every object
whatever, this was much more the case with incised or sculptured figures of men and animals.
In these figures the amulet, talisman, or gris-gris of savages especially consisted; portraits,
however rude, of animals, monsters, of the human form as a whole or in parts, as in the universal
phallic superstitions. The belief in spirits, resulting from the personification of shadows,
or of the image of a man's own soul which was supposed to return from the tomb, had a mythical
influence on the mode and ceremonies of sepulture, on the position of corpses, on the orientation
of tombs, and their form. In fact, the mythical ideas of spirits, and the fanciful place they
took in the primitive idea of the world, produced the custom of burying corpses in an upright,
stooping, or sitting position, and their situation with reference to the four cardinal points.
In America the cross which was placed in very early times above the tombs is rightly supposed
by Brinton to have been a symbol of the four zones of the earth, relatively to the tomb itself
and to the human remains enclosed in it. One Australian tribe buries its dead with their faces
to the east; the Fijians are buried with the head and feet to the west, and many of the North
American Indians follow the same custom. Others in South America double up the corpse, turning
the face to the east. The Peruvians place their mummies in a sitting position, looking to the
west; the natives of Jesso also turn the head to the west. The modern Siamese never sleep with
their faces turned to the west, because this is the attitude in which they place their dead
before burning them on the funeral pile. Finally, the Greeks and all other peoples, both civilized
and barbarous, including ourselves, had and continue to have special customs in burying their dead.

All the primitive artistic representations of the human form, the orientation of tombs and
temples and their peculiar form, were prompted by these spiritualist and superstitious ideas;
they expressed a symbolism derived from mythical ideas of the constitution of the world, of
its organism, elements, and cosmic legends. This assertion might be verified by all funereal,
religious, and civil monuments, among all peoples of the earth, in their most rudimentary form
down to those of our times, and above all in India, China, Central Asia, in Africa, and particularly
in Egypt, in America, in Europe, beginning with the Greeks and passing through the Latins down
to the Christianity of our day; nor need we exclude the Oceanic races, and those of the two
frigid zones.

Doubtless the purest æsthetic sentiment was gratified in the productions of the plastic arts
and of design in general when civilization was at its highest perfection, among people peculiarly
alive to this sentiment. At the same time, for the great majority of peoples in early and subsequent
ages down to our own time, there was and is the consciousness of a numen, in the proper meaning
of the word, within the statue or effigy, and these were unconsciously entified by the same
law which leads to the entification of natural phenomena; the august presence of the gods and
an artificial symbol of the living organism of the world were contained in the material form.
While this sentiment took a higher development in art, and was gradually emancipated from its
mythical bonds, it never altogether disappeared in artistic creations; and there are still
many who would, like some uncultured peoples of early and modern times, cover up their images
when they are about to commit some action which might be displeasing to these idols of the
gods or saints. If we were to gauge the sentiments which really animate a man of the people,
even when he; looks at the statue of a great man, we should find that in addition to his æsthetic
satisfaction, he unconsciously imagines that the spirit of the dead man is infused into the
image and is able to enjoy the admiration of the observers.

The-worship of images in all times and places is essentially founded on this belief in the
incarnation of spirits and the numen of fetishes. There is indeed no real difference between
the superstitious adoration of a savage, addressed to his fetish, and the worship of images
in many religions of modern civilization. Although people of culture, and the scholastic theory
of religions, may distinguish indirect and respectful veneration from direct worship, yet it
cannot be denied that the majority of the faithful directly adore the image. The general belief
in relics, consisting of bones, hair, clothes, etc., is plainly an evolution of the amulets
and gris-gris of savages. This fetishtic and idolatrous sentiment has by a gradual and necessary
development been infused even into speech and writing, for written forms have been hung on
plants as fetishes and idols, or placed in the temples as the symbol of perpetual prayer, and
the Buddhists even erect prayer-mills. We have analogous instances among ourselves, when texts
of Scripture or the words of some saint are rolled up into a kind of amulet and worn round
the neck. The same sentiment is shown in the costly offering of lamps kept constantly burning
before images as the means of obtaining help and favour; and in the visits made to a given
number of churches, thus transforming number into a mysterious, entified, and efficacious power,
in the same way that every ancient people, whether barbarous or civilized, mythically venerated
certain numbers; the Peruvians, for instance, and some other American peoples regarded the
number "four" as sacred.

In addition to the cherished remembrance always inspired by portraits of those we love, a breathing
of life, as if the dead or absent person were communicating with us in spirit, is perhaps unconsciously
infused into the picture while we look at it. These are transient states of consciousness,
of which we are scarcely aware, although they do not escape the notice of careful observers.
Any dishonour or insult offered to images, whether sacred or profane, deeply moves both the
learned and unlearned, both barbarous and civilized peoples, not merely as a base and sacrilegious
act against the person represented, but from an instinctive and spontaneous feeling that he
is actually present in the image. Any one who analyzes the matter will find it impossible to
separate these two sentiments, and many disgraceful and sanguinary scenes which have led to
the gallows or the stake have actually resulted from the identification of the image with the
thing represented.

Even when a man of high culture and refined taste for beauty stands before the canvas or sculpture
of some great ancient or modern artist, his spiritual and æsthetic enjoyment of these wonderful
works is, as he will find from the observation of his inmost emotions, combined with the animation
and personification of what he sees; he is so far carried away by the beauty and truth of the
representation that the passions represented affect him as if they were those of real persons.
This relative perfection of a work of art, either in the way the objects stand out, in the
varied diffusion of light and shade, in the movement and expression of figures, in the effect
of the whole in its details and background, is all heightened and confirmed by the underlying
entification of images. The process we have before described by which a confused group of objects
appear to us as a human form or phantasm is also effected in this case in a more subtle way
and with less effort of memory; it is all ultimately due to the primitive fact of animal perception.
Our imagination can supply the resemblance, the limbs, colour, and design in a picture in which
a face, figure, or landscape are slightly sketched, or in a roughly chiselled statue. We often
hear the complaint that a work of art is too highly finished, and it wearies and displeases
us because it leaves nothing for the imagination to supply. The remark reveals the fact, of
which we are all implicitly conscious, that we are ourselves in part the artificers of every
external phenomenon.

We need not stop to prove a truth well-known to all, that architecture and all kinds of monuments
lend themselves to a symbolism derived from ancient and primitive popular ideas. This was the
case in India, Mesopotamia, Phoenicia, Egypt, Judæa, Greece, Ancient and Christian Rome, and
in the ancient remains found in savage countries and in America. The freemasons of the Middle
Ages united the earliest and most varied traditions with the symbols of Christianity. We unconsciously
carry on the same traditions, preserving some of their forms, although the meaning of the symbol
is lost. Tombs in the open air which enclosed a spirit, and round which the shades roamed,
were the first sacred buildings, from which by an easy and intelligible evolution of ideas,
temples, with a similar orientation, and other works of architecture, both religious and civil,
were derived. If we follow, step by step, the development of the tomb into the temple, the
palace, and the triumphal arch, we shall see how the outward form and the human and cosmic
myth were reciprocally enlarged. Ethnography, archæology, and the history of all peoples indicate
their gradual evolution, so that it is only necessary to allude to it; proofs abound for any
intelligent reader. Even in modern architecture the arrangement of parts, the general form,
the ornaments and symbols relating to mythical ideas, still persist, although we are no longer
conscious of their meaning; just as human speech now makes use of a simple phonetic sign as
if it were an algebraic notation, in which the philologist can trace the primitive and concrete
image whence it proceeded. The arts also, like other human products, follow the general evolution
of myth in their historic course; the primitive fetish is afterwards perfected by more explicit
spiritual beliefs, and is combined with cosmic myths; these are slowly transformed into symbolic
representations, which dissolve in their turn, and give place to the expression of the truth
and to forms which more fully satisfy the natural sense of beauty and its adaptation to special
ends.

The arts of singing and of instrumental music have the same origin and evolution as the others.
Vico, Strabo, and others have asserted that primitive men spoke in song, and there is great
truth in the remark. Since gesture and pantomime help out the meaning of imperfect speech,
which was at first poor in the number of words and their relative forms, and this is still
the case among many peoples, so song, vocal modulation, and the rhythmic expression of speech
seem to stimulate emotion. In truth, the mental and physiological effort which tends by vocal
enunciation to present the image or emotion in an external form, is on the one hand not yet
fully disintegrated, and on the other the greater or less intensity of feeling involved in
primitive languages a corresponding vocal modulation to supplement it, just as it required
gesture and pantomime. Thus speech, gesture, and song, in the larger sense of the word, had
their origin together. This is also true of many of the languages of modern savages, and of
those of more civilized peoples, such as the Chinese, which have not quite attained inflection;
in this case the frequent repetition of the same monosyllable conveys a different meaning,
not only from its relative position, but from the modulation and tone in which it is uttered.
The same thing may be observed in children who are just beginning to talk.

Rhythm, or the graduated and alternate action and reaction with which a vibration begins and
ends, is a universal law in the manifestation and movements of all natural phenomena; a law
which is revealed on a grand scale in all the recurring periods of nature, whether astral,
telluric, or meteorological, as well as in the form and manifold phases of organisms and their
modes of reproduction. This universal law also applies to the whole mental and organic system
of animals and men, whenever they become conscious of their own existence. The same universal
rhythm constitutes the fundamental form of sound in the vibration of metallic bars, or of strings,
and becomes perceptible to the external senses by means of our organ of hearing, as also by
the external and innate necessity slowly developed by our habits of consciousness, which may
be termed the external causes of its organic evolution and constitution.

By these organic and cosmic tendencies, and by the intrinsic impulse towards modulation of
sound already explained, speech first issued from the human breast in harmonious accents and
rhythmic form, and these became in their turn the causes and genesis of versification and metre.
The classic experiments of Helmholtz show that each note may be regarded as a harmonic whole,
owing to the complementary sounds which accompany it in its complete development. With reference
to our own race, the genesis of the composition of verse and metre are shown by the researches
made by Westphal and others into the metrical system of the Vedic Aryans, the Turanians, and
the Greeks, since the fact that their metres were the same implies a common origin. The demonstration
is complete, if we compare the iambic metre of Archilochus with that of the Vedic hymns. There
are in both three series of iambuses--the dimeter, the cataleptic trimeter, and the acataleptic.[36]

This observation applies to the physical and physiological conditions of the phenomenon, since
primitive men could not speak without rhythmic modulation of words. We are not quite without
hope of discovering by induction the origin of wind or stringed instruments which accompanied
the songs, after the specification of the modes of speech was so far advanced as to distinguish
singing--which had already become an art--from the daily necessity of reciprocal communication
in words. In this research we must proceed step by step, aided by minute observation, lest
we should accept an hypothesis which does not correspond with the facts.

Not only man, but some animals--among others a species of mouse found in South Africa--naturally
uses his limbs to moderate or strengthen the light of vision. This mouse was observed to shade
its eyes with its forepaws in order to look at some distant object under a blazing sun, as
we should do in like conditions. In man, whose arms and hands are readily adapted to this primitive
art, the habit is common, even among the rudest savages. Putting sight out of the question
that we may consider hearing, which is our present theme, reflex movements, either casual or
habitual, have certainly induced primitive men to place their hands on the mouth, either so
as to suppress the sound or to augment it by using both hands as a kind of shell. It is easy
to imagine the use of shells or other hollow objects as a vehicle of sound, either for amusement
or some other cause, and these rude instruments might serve as the first step to the invention
of wind instruments. Reflection on these spontaneous experiments would readily lead to the
search for some mode of prolonging or imitating the voice. In these attempts men might be guided
by their observation of the whistle and song of birds, whose beaks may have served as a model
for the construction of the flute and reed-pipe. Pott traces the word for sound to the root
svar, and hence, after some natural phonetic changes, we have in Lithuanian szwilpti for the
song of birds. Of all natural objects, different kinds of reeds and the hollow stalks of plants
are, owing to their hollow and cylindrical form, best adapted for the imitation of a bird's
beak and the sonorous transmission of breath. In many languages the word for a flute is the
same as that for a reed. In Sanscrit, vança and vênu mean a flute and bamboo; in Persian, nâ
and nây mean a flute and reed; in Greek [Greek: donas], and in Latin calamus, have the same
double meaning, and many more examples might be given.

Stringed instruments are a more elaborate invention, and may have been suggested by the vibration
of a bow-string when it is twanged. The bow is common to all modern savages, and was also found
among extinct peoples and those which are now civilized, as well as in prehistoric times. The
Sanscrit word for a stringed instrument, tata or vitata, is derived from the root tan, to stretch.
Pictet observes that one name for a lute is rudri, from rud, to lament, that is, a plaintive
instrument; in Persian we have rod for song, music, or a stringed instrument. The etymology
of arcus is the same; the root arc not only means to hurl, but to sing or resound. Homer and
Rannjana often allude to the sonorousness of the bow and its string. Homer says in speaking
of the bow of Pandarus, "stridit funis, et nervus valde sonuit." And when Ulysses drew his
avenging bow, the cord emitted a clear sound like the voice of a swallow. Lôcàka, another name
for a cord, also means one who speaks, from lòc, loqui; and the Persian rûd, rôda, a bow-string,
also means a song. In the Veda the root arc' is used in speaking of the roaring wind, or of
a long echoing sound. Again tâvara, a bow-string, is from tan, to stretch, to sound. The Greek
[Greek: tonos] must be referred to the same root, and signifies, a bow-string, a sound, an
accent, a tone. Benfey traces the Greek [Greek: lura], in which this root is wanting, through
[Greek: ludra], or rudra. Kuhn confirms this transformation by the analogy between the Vedic
god Rudra and the Greek Apollo, both of whom are armed with a bow. Rudra, like Apollo, is a
great physician; the former is called kapardin, from his mode of wearing his long hair, and
vanku from his tortuous gait as the god of storms; to the latter the epithets of [Greek: achers
echomes] and [Greek: loxias] are applied; the mouse was sacred to Rudro, and Apollo had the
surname of Smintheus, from the mouse, [Greek: Smintha], which was his symbol.

These wind and stringed instruments were not, in their primitive forms, at once used as an
accompaniment to song. Before such use was possible, there must have been considerable progress
in the specification of language, and special songs must have been disintegrated from common
speech, which was at first an inchoate song. Possibly some rude instruments were invented for
amusement or some other purpose before this specification had taken place. At any rate the
use of various instruments for accompaniment was preceded by gesticulation, or the spontaneous
striking of some object which coincided with animated speech, or which accompanied it in sonorous
cadences.

The rhythm which stimulated primitive men to speak in song, also impelled them to accompany
it with gestures and movements of the body, and this was the origin of the dance, which, when
the body moved in correspondence with cadenced utterances, was at first merely the accompaniment
of song. Tradition, modern ethnography, and the primitive habits of children bear witness to
this fact. In addition to the rhythmic motion of all parts of the body, there is the practice
of spontaneously beating time with the hands and feet, which were doubtless the first instruments
used by man as a musical accompaniment. Hence, owing to the facility of, construction, there
arose percussion instruments, which were at first made of stone or pieces of wood. So that
singing, dancing, accompaniment with the limbs or with some rudely fashioned object arose almost
simultaneously, as soon as the process of specification had established a distinction between
song and ordinary speech. The first simple instruments which we have described only made the
song, shout, war-dance, or religious ceremony more effective.

When chanted speech was formulated in a fixed order by means of rhythm and the modulations
of the voice, it became verse, and the melody itself, as the simple expression of the song
which had been cast into verse, or even into an inarticulate chant, was naturally evolved from
it. An artistic education is not needed in order to experience the pleasure of rhythmic order
in the succession of sound, for a predisposition of the nervous system will suffice. Savages,
children, and even animals are sensible of rhythm, which is the order and symmetry of sensations.
The dance, as Beauquier justly observes, is the practical form of rhythmic motion and the gesture
of music. The motion impressed by sound on the internal organism tends to manifest itself in
external gesture, and in fact, the rhythm of the music is repeated in dancing in the limbs
and in the whole body of the dancer. The rhythm, regarded in its material cause, need not be
accompanied by any very musical sound. The percussion instruments were at first only used to
mark and intensify the rhythm.

Melody may be termed a fusion of rhythm and sounds of different pitches, united in time, and
assuming a regular and symmetrical form; melody, as others also have observed, constitutes
the whole of music, since without it harmony itself is vague and indefinite. Notwithstanding
the numerous elements which may be discerned in melody, and the labour implied in its analysis,
it is the facile and spontaneous creation of man, at any rate in its simplest expression; uneducated
people, ignorant of music, are able to invent very tolerable melodies, of which we have instances
in popular and national songs, which are generated by the musical fancy of those unconscious
of the laws of music. Melody has an independent existence, while harmony serves to accentuate
its form, and conduces to its subsequent progress among peoples capable of developing it in
all its power.[37]

Music has a powerful influence upon all the senses. It has at all times been supposed to have
a healing power, and in the Middle Ages it was believed to cure epilepsy, madness, convulsions,
hysteria, and all forms of nervous affections; while in our own time it is usefully employed
in cerebral diseases, since it has both a stimulating and soothing effect. Women, since they
are generally more nervous and sensitive than men, are more especially affected by music. Animals
as well as man are influenced by it, as it has been shown by exact and numerous experiments.
Every one knows that many birds can be taught airs, which they sing with taste and lively satisfaction.
The major key, with its regular proportions, its full and gradual sounds, arouses in man a
sense of life and joy, while the minor key excites languor and invincible sadness, and animals
are affected in the same way.

It is evident that the formation of the scale, the essential foundation of music, varies with,
the epoch, climate, habits, and physiological conditions of the different races which have
successively adopted the diatonic, the major, and minor scales. The music of the Chinese differs
from our own, and while it is equally elaborate, it does not quite please us, and the same
may be said of the music of the Indians, of the ancient Egyptians, and others. Undoubtedly
our scale is more convenient and conformable to art, setting aside the physiological conditions
of race, since the notes separated by regular intervals form a more spiritual and independent,
in short a more artistic system.

Such are briefly the characteristics of the genesis of song and of music, the actual conditions
which make them possible, and their effect on man and animals. We must now consider the subject
from the mythical point of view, as we have done in the case of the other arts. We know that
the image and emotions are mythically personified by us, and this fanciful reality is afterwards
infused into the words used in its expression. It follows from this that speech is not only
spontaneously and unconsciously personified as the material covering of the idea or emotion
enclosed in it, but that the same thing occurs in language as a whole, at first vaguely, but
afterwards in a definite and reflective manner, in consequence of intellectual development.
Among all civilized peoples, whether extinct or still in existence, speech is not only personified
in the complex idea or language, but it is deified. It is well known that this is the case
in all phases of Eastern Christianity, and that the other Christian churches have since identified
the Græco-Eastern idea of the Logos with the Messianic ideas engrafted upon it. If among the
prehistoric peoples which most resemble modern savages, speech was personified by the necessity
of the perceptive faculty, a vague power was certainly ascribed to it, and even a simple murmur
or whisper was supposed to have a direct and personal influence on things, men, and animals.
Magic, which is the primitive expression of fetishtic power, embodied in a man, had its most
efficacious form in the utterance of words, cries, whispers, or songs, referring to the malign
or to the healing and beneficent arts, and it was employed to arouse or to calm storms, to
destroy or improve the harvest, or for like purposes.

Beginning with the traditions of our race, even prior to its dispersion, there are plain proofs
that words and songs were originally employed for exorcisms and magic in various diseases,
and for incantations directed against men or things. Kar means to bewitch, as in German we
have einem etwas anthun, in low Latin facturare, in Italian fattucchiere, and from Kar we have
carmen, a song or magic formula. The goddess Carmenta, who was supposed to watch over childbirth,
derived her name from carmen, the magic formula which was used to aid the delivery. The name
was also used for a prophetess, as Carmenta, the mother of Evander. Servio tells us that the
augurs were termed carmentes.[38] The Sanscrit mâya, meaning magic or illusion and, in the
Veda, wisdom, is derived from man, to think or know; from man we have mantra, magic formula
or incantation; in Zend, manthra is an incantation against disease, and hence we have the Erse
manadh, incantation or juggling, and mòniti in Lithuanian. The linguistic researches of Pictet,
Pott, Benfey, Kuhn, and others show that in primitive times singing, poetry, hymns, the celebration
of rites, and the relation of tales, were identical ideas, expressed in identical forms, and
even the name for a nightingale had the same derivation. So also the names of a singer, poet,
a wise man, and a magician, came from the same root.

Among all historic and savage peoples it was the general practice to use exorcism by means
of magic formulas and incantations, combined with the noise of rude instruments; this was part
of the pathology, meteorology, and demonology which dated from the beginning of speech, and
the first rude ideas of fetishes and spirits have persisted in various forms down to our days.
We have a plain proof of this in a work dedicated to Pius IX. by M. Gaume, in which he sets
forth the virtue of holy water against the innumerable powers of evil which, as he declares,
still people the cosmic spaces, and similar rites may be traced in the liturgies of all modern
religions. This belief is directly founded on the fanciful personification and incarnation
of a power in speech itself, in song, and in sound. David had similar ideas of dancing and
its accessories, and the walls of Jericho are said to have fallen at the sound of the trumpets,
as if these contained the spirit of God. The Patagonians, to quote a single instance from among
savages, drive away the evil spirits of diseases with magic songs, accompanied by drums on
which demons are painted. To these mythical ideas we must refer the worship of trees, which
involves that of birds, so far as they whistle and sing.

The worship of trees and groves is universal: peculiar trees, groves, and woods are worshipped
in Tahiti, in the Fiji Islands, and throughout Polynesia; in barbarous Asia, in Europe, America,
and the whole of Africa. Cameron, Schweinfurth, Stanley, and other modern travellers in Africa
give many instances of this. Schweinfurth describes such a worship among the Niam-Niam, who
hold that the forest is inhabited by invisible beings. This worship is naturally combined with
that of birds, which become the confidants of the forest, repeat the mysteries of mother earth,
and sometimes become interpreters and prophets to man.

Birds, by their power of moving through the air as lords of the aerial space, by their arts
of building, by the beauty of their plumage, their secret haunts in the forests and rocks,
by their frequent appearance both by day and night, and by the variety of their songs, must
necessarily have excited the fetishtic fancy of primitive men. The worship of birds was therefore
universal, in connection with that of trees, meteors, and waters. They were supposed to cause
storms; and the eagle, the falcon, the magpie, and some other birds brought the celestial fire
on the earth. The worship of birds is also common in America, and in Central America the bird
voc is the messenger of Hurakau, the god of storms. The magic-doctors of the Cri, of the Arikari,
and of the Indians of the Antilles, wore the feathers and images of the owl as an emblem of
the divine inspiration by which they were animated. Similar beliefs are common in Africa and
Polynesia.[39] It is well known that the Egyptians worshipped the ibis, the hawk, and other
birds, and that the Greeks worshipped birds and trees at Dodona, in consequence of a celebrated
oracle. In Italy the lapwing and the magpie became Pilumnus and Picus, who led the Sabines
into Picenus. Divination by eagles and other birds was practised at Rome, and German, Slav,
and Celtic traditions abound in similar myths.[40] Nor are they wanting in the Bible itself,
in which we hear of the trees of knowledge and of life, of some celebrated trees in the times
of the patriarchs, of the raven and the dove sent out as messengers. The Old Testament speaks
of the worship of groves at Ashtaroth in Canaan, of sacrifices under the green trees, and we
know that such worship occurred in the Semitic races of Numidia and elsewhere.

The simultaneous elaboration of myths relating to trees and birds as objects of worship, as
beneficent or malign powers, and as the transmitters of oracles, necessarily confirmed and
extended the personifications of speech and song, and were fused through many sources into
a whole, which represented a supernatural agent, endowed with the power of a mediator, of a
good or evil spirit or idol. This ultimately led to a universal conception of the efficacy
of sound, considered as the manifestation of occult powers. In this mythically spiritual atmosphere,
all peoples formerly lived and in great part still continue to live.

As the innate impulse led to the entification of speech and of the singing of men and animals,
so it also led to the mythical personification of dancing and instrumental music, in which
nearly all peoples have recognized a demoniac and deliberate power. For this reason, dancing
and the noise of rude instruments generally accompanied solemn religious and civil ceremonies,
and any remarkable cosmic, astral, or meteorological fact; and in polytheistic times the deities
of poetry, dancing, and music served to accentuate and classify ideas.

The instrument became a fetish, and was invested with a mysterious power resembling that which
was supposed to exist in all utterances of the animal world. Indeed, instruments were, and
still are among savages, regarded as sacred and as an integral part of public worship, so that
each had its definite function and office. This need not surprise us, since for such men every
object is a fetish, which contains a soul. The Karens, a tribe in Burmah, believe that their
arms, knives, utensils, etc., have all a kelap or soul, which is termed a wong by the negroes
of West Africa. The same belief is found in a more explicit form among the Algonquins, the
Fijians, and the aforesaid Karens, whose beliefs are characteristic of all peoples which have
reached this stage of mythical conceptions. The different objects belonging to a dead man,
and his instruments, arms, and utensils, are laid in his tomb, or burnt with his body, and
this is owing to the belief that the souls of these objects follow their possessor into another
life. The same custom unfortunately extends to persons, and there are instances of this evil
practice among relatively civilized nations; the massacre which takes place at the death of
a king of Dahomey is well known, and is revolting from the number of victims and from the mode
of their sacrifice. It is therefore easy to imagine the way in which musical instruments and
the sounds produced by them were personified, since these manifestations seemed to approximate
more closely to those of animals.

Fetishtic beliefs concerning magic songs or sounds were, as we have seen, confirmed by the
influence naturally exerted on men and animals in their normal or abnormal state by rhythmic
and musical sounds, however rude and unformed they may be. Theophrastus tells us that blowing
a flute over the affected limb was supposed to cure gout; the Romans recited carmina to drive
away disease and demons: the old Slav word for physician, vraçi, comes from a root which means
to murmur; in Servian, vrac is a physician, and balii, an enchanter or physician. The use of
incantations as a remedy prevailed among the Greeks in Homer's time. The Atarva-Veda retains
the old formula of imprecation against disease, and the Zendavesta divides physicians into
three classes, those which cure with the knife, with herbs, and with magic formulas. Kuhn believes
that the Latin word mederi refers to these proceedings, comparing with it the Sanscrit méth,
mêdh, to oppose or curse. Pictet traces the meaning of exorciser in another Sanscrit word for
a physician: Bhisag from sag, sang, tojurbo gate.

As the civilization of the historic races advanced, poetry, singing, and musical instruments
became more perfect, and were classified as reflex arts. Among the more intellectual classes
the earlier fetishtic ideas connected with them almost disappeared, while in the case of the
common people, the fetish was idealized, but not therefore lost; it persisted, and still persists,
under other forms. Polytheism, modified to suit the place, time, and race, and yet essentially
the same, offers us a more ideal form of the arts, each of which was personified as a god,
and taken together they formed a heavenly company, which generated and presided over the arts.
The greatest poets and philosophers of antiquity retained a sincere belief in the inspiration
of every creation of art; and this was only a more noble and intellectual form of the first
rude and indefinite conception by which the arts were embodied in a material shape.

Of all the Aryan peoples, Greece represented her Olympus in the most glorious mythical form,
set forth by all the arts of description. From the polytheistic point of view, nothing can
be æsthetically more perfect than the myths of Apollo and the Muses, which personify harmony
in general, and whatever is peculiar to the arts. Such conceptions, by which the arts of speech,
song, vocal and instrumental music were embodied in myths, did not disappear as time went on,
but were perpetuated in another form. Music, which was always becoming more elaborate, continued
to be the highest inspiration, a divine power, an external and harmonious manifestation of
celestial beings, of eternal life, and the order of the world. This conception was shadowed
forth in the Pythagorean theory of the mythical harmony of the spheres: that school regarded
the world as a musical system, an harmonious dance of planets.

The fetishtic and mythical origin common to all the arts is clearly shown by the fact that
at a period relatively advanced, but still very remote, they were formulated in the temple,
a symbolic representation of their deities, to be found even among the most primitive peoples.
The evolution of the arts towards a more rational conception, divested of mythical and religious
influence, took the form of releasing each art from bondage to the temple, and enabling it
to assume a more distinct, free, and secular personality, an evolution which was however somewhat
difficult and slow in the case of vocal and instrumental music. Although in our own time it
has achieved a field for itself, yet in oratorios and ecclesiastical music the old conception
remains.

The joys of the Elysian fields and of Paradise, as rewards of the good and faithful after death,
varying in details with the moral and mythical beliefs of various peoples, were heightened
by concerts and musical symphonies, as, owing to natural evolution and the introduction of
Oriental ideas, if appears even in the Christian conception of Paradise. For the great majority
of believers, earthly music is only an echo of that celestial music, and participates in its
divine efficacy. In the Christian Paradise there were saints to preside over the instruments,
the singing, and music; the visions of the ecstatic, the hallucinations of the mystic, and
the precious memories and images of the dead, are often combined with sweet and heavenly music,
and this completes the fetishtic idea which enters into every phenomenon with which man has
to do. For if inanimate objects and instruments were supposed by the primitive savage to have
a soul which followed the shade of the dead man into the mythical abode beyond the grave, in
modern religions the earthly instruments, the fanciful idols of the common people and of mystics,
also resound in Elysium and the heavens, touched and inspired by choirs of angels and by seraphic
powers.

The deep and sonorous music of bells, of organs, and other ecclesiastical instruments, the
chants which resound through vaulted roofs amid the assembled worshippers, ecclesiastical lights,
and the fumes of incense, inspire many Christians with a deep and æsthetic sense of the divine
presence; and at such moments their vivid faith joins heaven and earth in the same harmonious
emotion. The music, chants, and harmony, combined with other solemn rites, are unconsciously
embodied by us, entering into our hearts as they circle round the church, and they become the
mysterious language of celestial powers. We are once more immersed in the world of fancy and
of myth, purified however by the evolution it has undergone. This exalted state of mind is
also experienced by those who listen to profane music, since the harmony and modulation of
sound, and the expression given to it by the combination of various instruments, immediately
affect the soul of the listener as a whole, without the aid of reflection, and a substantial
entity which deliberately fulfils its spontaneous cycle of development is thus created; in
a word, the harmonies they hear are unconsciously personified. Any one who makes a deep and
careful analysis of his states of consciousness in these circumstances will admit the truth
of this assertion.

The ordinary modes of expression respecting music, which are in use not only among uneducated
people, but among those who are educated and civilized, display the earlier and innate belief
in the mythical representations of this art. The expressions may be often heard: What divine
music! What angelic harmony! This song is really seraphic! and the like. Such expressions not
only bear witness to the old mythical sentiment, and to the ultimate development of its form,
but they also indicate the actual sentiments of the speaker. The personifying power of the
human intelligence is such as to recur spontaneously, even in one who has abandoned these ancient
illusions, if he surrenders himself for a while to his natural instinct. It has often happened
that a man who listens to a melodious and beautiful piece of music is gradually aroused and
excited by its sweet power, so as to be carried away into a world of new sensations, in which
all our sentiments and affections, our deepest, tenderest, and dearest aspirations blossom
afresh in our memory, and are fused into and strengthened by these harmonies; we seem to be
transported into ethereal regions, and unconsciously surrender ourselves to their influence.
This kind of natural ecstasy is not produced merely by the physiological effects of music on
the organism, by the education of our sense of beauty, and of our reminiscences of earlier
mythical emotions, but also by the innate impulse which still persists, leading us to idealize
and vivify all natural phenomena, and also our own sensations.

But if among the common people, the devout, and occasionally also among people of culture,
this highest art is not divested of its mythical environment, which still persists, although
in a more ideal form, yet it has followed and still follows the general evolution of human
ideas. The art of music was identified with song and with the mythical personality ascribed
to it, of which these instruments were the extrinsic and harmonious echo; at first, like the
other arts, it, was a religious conception and entity pertaining to the Church, but it gradually
assumed a character of its own, was dissociated from the Church, and became a secular art,
diverging more and more from the mythical ideas with which it had before been filled. When
instruments increased in number, and became more perfect in quality; when harmony, strictly
so called, was developed and became more efficient, instrumental music still continued to be
the servant of vocal music, and was employed to give emphasis, relief, warmth, and colour to
the art of song, which continued to be supreme. Song had its peculiar musical character, and
the human voice, alone or in a chorus, might be regarded as the type of instrumental music,
rendered more effective by the words which expressed the ideas and sentiments of such songs
by harmonizing the various vocal instruments in accordance with their tones and varying timbre.
Instrumental music, by the melodious harmony of artificial sounds, had however a vast field
peculiar to itself, and an existence independent of the human voice. This was and is, in addition
to its release from the bonds of myth, the necessary result of the evolution of this highest art.

Instrumental music, considered in itself, with the symphony as its highest expression, has
been declared by a learned writer to be the grandest artistic creation, and the ultimate form
of art in which the vast cycle of all things human will find its development. A symphony is
an architectural construction of sounds, mobile in form, and not absolutely devoid of a literary
meaning. Yet we must not seek in instrumental music for that which it cannot afford, such as
the ideas contained in words. Any one must admit the futility of the attempt to give a dramatic
interpretation or language to instrumental music, who reads the description attempted by Lenz
and other writers of some of Beethoven's sonatas. Instrumental music does not lend itself to
these interpretations, since it is an art with an independent existence. We have observed that
in its first development it was used as an accompaniment to the voice, or associated with the
movements of the body, or with the dance, and consequently had not the independence which was
gradually achieved, until it culminated in the symphony. Instrumental music adds nothing to
literature, nor to the expression of ideas and sentiments, but in it pure music consists, and
it is the very essence of the art. Literature and poetry belong to a definite order of ideas
and emotions; music is only able to afford musical ideas and sentiments. Instrumental music
has its peculiar province as the supreme art which composes its own poems by means of the order,
succession, and harmony of sounds; it delights, ravishes, and moves us by exciting the emotional
part of our nature, and thus arouses a world of ideas which may be modified at pleasure, and
which may, by the powerful means at its disposal, produce effects of which instruments merely
used for accompanying the voice are incapable. When instrumental music was released from all
servitude to other arts, as well as from all positive sense of religious emotions or mythical
and symbolic prejudice, thought was able to create the art of sounds, which contains in itself
a special aim and meaning.

We have thus reached the term of our arduous and fatiguing journey. We flatter ourselves that
a truth has been gleaned from it, and this conviction is not, due to a presumptuous reliance
on our powers, but on the conscientious honesty of our researches, combined with a great yet
humble love of truth. Others, who are better endowed with genius and learning will judge of
our success, and we shall willingly submit to their criticism and correction, so long as they
are fair and unprejudiced and only aim at the truth. From animal perception, and the mental
and physical fact into which it is to be resolved, we have traced the root which in man's case
grows into a mighty tree; the first germ of all the mythical ideas of every people upon earth.
The subjectivity of which animals and man are spontaneously conscious in every internal and
external phenomenon, the subsequent entification of ideas, even after thought has attained
to these more rational forms, are the great factors of myth in all its forms, of superstitions,
of religions, and also of science. We have reduced all the normal and abnormal sources of these
fanciful ideas to that single source which we have just indicated. Penetrating below the kingdom
of man into that of animals, we have there discovered where the germ was formed, and this completes
the doctrine of evolution and bears witness to its truth. The evolution of myth went through
the regular process, by which it was formulated and simplified, until it was resolved into
all the sciences and rational arts, and was thus transformed into a positive science, passing
through an ulterior stage of myth and science before it took the definitive form of a purely
intellectual conception.

We have seen that the source of myth is the same as that of science, since perception is the
condition of both, and the process pursued is identical, although the subject on which the
faculty of thought is exercised is changed. Therefore the problem of myth, which includes every
achievement of the human understanding, and fills all sociology, is transformed into the problem
of civilization. Thought has run its course in the vast evolution from myth to science, which
is rendered possible by the permanence and duration of a powerful and vigorous race, and hence
came the gradual transition from the illusions which involve the ignorance and servitude of
the majority of the people to truth and liberty, since these are released from their earlier
wrappings, and the human race rises to a sense of its nobility and highest good. We have considered
this evolution as a whole and in its details, and have seen that every achievement of the human
understanding passes through the same phases, and reaches the same goal. We have adduced witnesses
to confirm our own observation from history and ethnography in general, apart from any bias
for a religious and scientific system. We believe that in this way alone there can be any true
progress in the science which we have undertaken to consider in this essay.

The result of the inquiry shows that by a slow yet inevitable evolution man rose from his primeval
condition of error, illusion, and servitude to his fellow man, to that degree of truth and
liberty of which he is capable: he was so made that he necessarily advanced to the grand height
which has been attained by the most laborious and intelligent of the human race. He rises higher,
and is more sensible of his own dignity, in proportion as he becomes, within the limits of
his nature, the artificer of his own greatness and civilization. While many peoples have become
extinct, others have, owing to their natural incapacity, remained in a savage and barbarous
condition, while others again have attained to a certain amount of civilization, but their
mental evolution has stopped short. Our own race, originally, as I believe, Aryo-Semitic, for
it is possible that these two powerful branches were derived from a common stock, has persisted
without interruption in spite of many adversities and revolutions, and has displayed in successive
generations the progress of general civilization, and the goal which man is able to reach in
his highest perfection of mind and body, favoured by the physical and biological conditions
of climate. In this race, whether with respect to myth and science or to civilization, the
theory of evolution has practically been carried out in all its phases and degrees.

Science and freedom were the great factors of civilization, or of progress in every kind of
conceptions, sentiments, and social conditions: the first dissolved and destroyed the matrix
of myth in which the intelligence was at first enveloped, and liberty, which was wholly due
to science, made steady progress a matter of certainty. So that it may be said that the whole
web of human history, so far as it consists in civilization or the progress of all good things,
of the arts, and of every intellectual and material achievement, was the conflict of science,
and her offspring freedom, against ignorance, and the despotism which results from ignorance,
under all the social forms in which they are manifested. So that all good and wise men, sincere
lovers of the dignity of mankind and of the welfare of society and of the individual, ought
to feel a deep reverence and love for these two powers, and to be ready to give up their lives
to them. For if--which in the present condition of the world is an impossible hypothesis--they
were to fail, the human race would be irretrievably lost, since these are our real liberators
from barbarism, which have upheld mankind in the struggle against it, under whatever name these
principles have appeared.

I am aware that my theory will meet with many obstinate and zealous opponents in Italy, since
I use the simple terms of reason and science, unqualified by other arguments, and I maintain
the absolute independence of free thought. Opposition is the more likely since science and
freedom have been held responsible for sectarian intemperance, for the disturbances of the
lower orders, for the inevitable disasters, the social and intellectual aberrations both of
the learned and of the common peoples: science and freedom are held to have repeated the wiles
of the serpent in Eden. But I am not uneasy at the thought of such opposition, since the progress
of the human race has been owing to the fact that men convinced of the truth took no heed of
the superstitious and interested war waged against them, sometimes from ignorance of things
in general and of the law which governs civilization, sometimes from honest conviction.

The falsity of the accusation so generally made against science and freedom will appear if
we consider that all the benefits we now enjoy, civil, scientific, and material, and which
are especially enjoyed by the men who inveigh most strongly against these two factors, are
solely derived from science and freedom. Without them we should be in the civil, intellectual,
and material condition of the kingdom of Dahomey, and in the savage and barbarous state of
all primitive peoples. If the misunderstanding of truth or an imperfect science is injurious,
it must not therefore be rejected. Science is the constant and vigilant generator of all social
improvement, and the most formidable enemy of the tyranny of a despot, of an oligarchy, or
of the multitude, whether it take a religious or secular form. Since sharp instruments are
powerful aids to civilization and material prosperity, they are not to be altogether set aside
because some persons die miserably by them. As I have always maintained, and now repeat with
still stronger conviction, science and freedom, the ever watchful guardians of the human race,
are and must always remain the sole remedies for the evils which threaten us. I do not dispute
the beneficent influence of other factors combined with these, but, taken alone, they would
be powerless, and if science were eclipsed they would be transformed into fresh causes of servitude
and ignorance, as it has often appeared in past times when the laws of science and of freedom
have been set at nought. I therefore declare science and freedom to be the portion of all,
and they should be as widely diffused as possible, since the way to knowledge and a worthy
life is open to all men. It is a blasphemy against heaven and earth to presume, in the so-called
interest of civil order, to keep the majority of the people in the ignoble servitude of ignorance,
and men do not perceive that they thus become ready for any disturbance, and the tools of rogues
and agitators.

I hope and pray that reverence for science and freedom may ever increase in Italy. It will
be an evil day for her if such reverence be lost, and she will become with every other people
in like case a wretched spectacle, and will fall into such abject misery as to become the laughing-stock
of every civilized nation. It will be understood that I do not erect science and liberty into
fetishes to be generally adored: they are only sacred means to a more sacred end, namely, to
enable men to practise and not merely to apprehend the truth, which in other words is goodness.
Science and freedom are valuable only so far as they teach, persuade, and enable us to improve
ourselves and others; to exercise every private and public virtue; to claim only what is due
to ourselves, while making the needful sacrifice to the common good; to have a respect for
humanity, and to venerate knowledge only so far as it is combined with virtue; to attempt in
every way to alleviate the miseries of others, to deliver their minds from ignorance and error;
to do right for its own sake without coveting rewards in heaven or on earth; to submit to no
dictation but that of truth and goodness.

With these sacred objects in view, whatever may be said to the contrary, we shall, in addition
to the ineffable fruition of truth for its own sake, ever draw nearer to the ideal of the human
race, and the time will come when an apparent Utopia shall be actually realized, in accordance
with the mode and process of growing civilization. Not by excesses, tumults, and folly, but
by unshaken firmness and tenacity we shall promote science and freedom. If this modest essay
has done anything to show the necessity of such culture, and in what way science and freedom,
and these two factors only, have brought forth fruit throughout the history of the human race,
my labour will be richly rewarded, and I may say with satisfaction--dies non perdidi!

FOOTNOTES.

[1] Simrock wrote: "Myth is the earliest form in which the mind of heathen peoples recognized
the universe and things divine."

[2] Kumaríla, in reply to the opponents who inveighed against the immorality of his gods, wrote
that the fable relates how Prajâpati, the lord of creation, violated his own daughter. But
what does this signify? Prajâpati is one name for the sun, so called because he is the lord
of light. His daughter Ushas is the dawn, and in declaring that he fell in love with her, it
is only meant that when the sun rises, it follows the dawn. So also, when it is said that Indra
seduced Ahalyâ, we are not to suppose that God committed such a crime, but Indra is the sun,
and Ahalyâ is the night; and so we may say that the night is seduced and conquered by the morning
sun. This, and other instances may be found in Max Müller's History of Ancient Sanscrit Literature.
Other instances might be given.

[3] Vico writes: "The human mind is naturally inclined to project itself on the object of its
external senses." And again, "Common speech ought to bear witness to ancient popular customs,
celebrated in times when the language was formed." So again: "Men ignorant of the natural causes
of things assign to them their own nature...." In another place: "The physical science of ignorant
men is a kind of common metaphysics, by which they assign the causes of things which they do
not understand to the will of the gods." Again: "Ignorant and primitive men transform all nature
into a vast living body, sentient of passions and affections."

[4] See, among other authorities for the most important phenomena of animals in their natural
associations, the profoundly learned work by the well-known A. Espinas: Des sociétés animales:
étude de Psychologie comparée, Paris, 2nd edit., 1879.

[5] I stated in my former essay on the fundamental law of the intelligence in the animal kingdom
that philosophy was only the research into the psychical manifestations of the animal kingdom,
and into those peculiar to man, in connection with the respective organisms in which they act,
and with the estimate of their power as cosmic factors in the general harmony of the forces
of the world.

[6] See, with respect to the primitive unity of the Aryan and Semitic races, the works of the
great philologist, T.G. Ascoli, and others.

[7] "Although it (psychology), still makes some show, yet the old psychology is condemned.
Its conditions of existence have disappeared in its new environment. Its methods no longer
suffice for the increasing difficulties of the task and the larger requirements of the scientific
spirit. It is constrained to live upon its past. Its wisest representatives have vainly attempted
a compromise, loudly asserting that facts must be observed, and that a large part should be
assigned to experience. Their concessions are unavailing, for however sincerely meant, they
are not actually carried out. As soon as they set to work the taste for pure speculation again
possesses them. Moreover, no reform of what is radically false can be effectual, and ancient
psychology is a bastard conception, doomed to perish from the contradictions which it involves."--Ribot,
Psychologie Allemande Contemporaine. Paris, 1879.

[8] Della legge fondamentale della intelligenza nel regno animale. Milano. Dumolard, 1877.

[9] See, among other works on the subject, Die Herabkunft des Feuers und des Gottertranks,
by Adalbert Kuhn; and Croyances et Légendes de l'Antiquité, by A. Maury.

[10] See Wuttke, Deutscher Volksaberglauber; Tylor, Primitive Culture; Hanusch, Rochholz, and
others.

[11] The Worship of Animals and Plants, Part I. Fortnightly Review, 1869. The same argument
is generally used; see Tylor, Early History of Mankind, 1865; Lubbock, Origin of Civilization,
1870; Herbert Spencer, Fortnightly Review, May, 1870; Waitz, Anthropologie der Naturvölker;
Bastian, Mensch in der Geschichte.

[12] See Alger's Critical History of the Doctrine of a Future Life.

[13] Arbrousset, The Basutos.

[14] Muir, Sanscrit Texts.

[15] Burton, West Africa; Tylor, Primitive Culture.

[16] Pictet, Origines Indo-Eoropéennes.

[17] The Hawaïans, for example, have only one term for love, friendship, esteem, gratitude,
benevolence, etc.--aloha; while they have distinct words for different degrees in a single
natural phenomenon. Thus aneane, gentle breeze; matani, wind; pahi, the act of breathing through
the mouth; hano, breathing through the nose. See Hale's Polynesian Dictionary. All peoples
have slowly attained to typical ideas, and many are even now in process of formation. Thus,
the Finns, Lapps, Tartars, and Mongols, have no generic words for river, although even the
smallest streams have their names. They have not a word to express fingers in general, but
special words for thumb, fore-finger, etc. They have no word for tree, but special words for
pine, birch, ash, etc. In the Finn language, the word first used for thumb was afterwards applied
to fingers generally, and the special word for the bay in which they lived came to be used
for all bays. See Castren, Vorlesungen über Finnische Mythologie. This original confusion in
the definition of scientific ideas, and the successive alternations by which they were re-cast,
may be gathered from the analysis of language, and from facts which still occur among uncultured
and ignorant people. When the inhabitants of Mallculo saw dogs for the first time, they called
them brooàs, or pigs. The inhabitants of Tauna also call the dogs imported thither buga, or
pigs. When the inhabitants of a small island in the Mediterranean saw oxen for the first time,
they called them horned asses.

[18] See Gaussin's Langue Polynésienne.

[19] This process of the evolution of primitive myth and of fetishes, will be more elaborately
considered in Chapter VII., when we come to speak generally of the historic evolution of science
and of myth. The repetition is not superfluous, since it is necessary for the complete understanding
of my theory.

[20] For example, in ancient Roman mythology the Fons was first adored, then Fontus, the father
of all sources, and finally Janus, a solar myth, the father of Fontus. Janus, as the sun, was
the producer of all water, which rose by evaporation and fell again in rain.

[21] The Sanscrit word Vayúnâ, meaning light, was personified in Aurora, and afterwards signified
the intelligence, or inward light; a symbolical evolution of myth towards a rational conception.
The worship of heaven and earth, united in a common type, is found among all Aryan peoples,
and among other races. The Germans worshipped Hertha, the original form of Erde, earth. The
Letts worshipped Mahte, or Mahmine, mother earth. So did the Magyars, and the Ostiaks adored
the earth under the Slavonic name of Imlia. In China sacrifices to the divine earth Heou-tou
and to the heaven Tien were fundamental rites. In North America the Shawnees invoked earth
as their great ancestress. The Comanchi adored her as their common mother. In New Zealand heaven
and earth are worshipped as Rangi and Papi. (Grey: Polynesian Mythology.) The myth of Apollo,
light, sun, heat, combined also with serpent worship, is found modified in a thousand ways
among all peoples, savages included. See Schwartz, Urspung der Mythologie; J. Fergusson, Tree
and Serpent Worship; Herbert Spencer, The Origin of Animal Worship; Maury, Religions de la
Grèce Antique. They also appeared among the Hebrew and kindred races. We find in the book of
Job that God "by His spirit had garnished the heavens; His hand has formed the crooked serpent"
(Job xxvi. 13), expressions which are almost Vedic. From celestial phenomena the myth of the
Apollo Serpent descended to impersonate the phenomena of earth, of which we have examples in
the Greek fable of the Python, and others. Apollo again appears as the god which agitates and
dissolves the waters, and the serpent as the winding course of a river, and also as other sources
of water. The sun causes the river water to evaporate, which is symbolized by the dragon's
conflict with Apollo, and the victory of the latter. The monster, as Forchhammer observes,
is formed during the childhood of Apollo, that is, at a time of year when the sun has not attained
his full force. When the serpent's body begins to putrefy, the reptile, in mythical language,
takes the new name of Python, or he who becomes putrid. The serpent Python, in accordance with
the continual transformations of myth, becomes the Hydra of Lerna, and Hercules, another solar
myth, is substituted for Apollo. This Hydra is transformed again into Typhon, a fresh personification
of the forces of nature and of the atmosphere, conspiring against heaven. The seven-headed
Hydra reappears in another form in the Rig-Veda, where the rain cloud is compared to the serpent
whom head rests on seven springs. I have Max Müller's authority for the vigorous alternation
of myths in those primitive ages, their extreme mobility, their resolution into vivified physical
forms, and the slight consistency of specific types. Aurora and Night are often substituted
for each other, and although in the original conception of the birth of Apollo and Artemis
they were certainly both considered to be children of the night, Leto and Latona, yet even
so the place or island where, according to the fable, they were born is Ortygia or Delos, or
sometimes called by both names at once. Delos means the land of light, but Ortygia, although
the name is given to different places, is Aurora, or the land of Aurora. (Gerhard, Griechische
Mythologie.) Ortygia is derived from Ortyx, a quail. In Sanscrit the quail is called Vartikâ,
the bird which returns, because it is one of the birds to return in spring. This name Vartikâ
is given in the Veda to one of the numerous beings which are set free and brought to life by
the Ascini, that is, by day and night, and Vartikâ is one of several names for the dawn. Vartikâ's
story is very short: she was swallowed, but delivered by the Asvini. She was drawn by them
from the wolf's throat. Hence we have Ortygia, the land of quails, the east; the isle which
issued miraculously from the floods, where Leto begot his solar twins, and also Ortygia, a
name given to Artemis, the daughter of Leto, because she was born in the east. The Druh, crimes
and darkness may in their subsequent development be contrasted with these ancient myths. Aurora
is represented by them as driving away the odious gloom of the Druh. The powers of darkness,
the Druh and Rakshas were called Adeva, and the shining gods were called Adruh. Kuhn believes
that the German words trügen and lügen are derived from Druh.

[22] Michel Bréal: Hercule et Cacus.

[23] We are not here concerned with a priori metaphysics, but with the psychical and organic
dispositions slowly produced by evolution and by consciousness in its cosmic relations. The
organic nature of these reflex phenomena is due to the fact that in the long course of ages
their exercise has, through physiological evolution, first become voluntary or spontaneous,
and then unconscious.

[24] The double meaning is projected into objects. The primitive meaning of dexter was fitting,
capable, and it was then applied to the side of the material body. Sansc. dacs, to hasten.
Ascoli, Studi linquistici.

[25] A careful reader will not hold this repetition to be unnecessary, since it explains from
another point of view the fundamental fact of perception and its results. It is here considered
with reference to the three elements which constitute this fact.

[26] This great truth was observed by Vico, the most advanced of modern psychologists, in his
views of primitive psychology.

[27] In Chinese, for example, and in many other languages, there are many words to indicate
the tail of a fish, a bird, etc., but no word for a tail in general. Even an intelligent savage
does not accurately distinguish between the subjective and the objective, between the imaginary
and the real; this is the most important result of a scientific education. Tylor, Primitive
Culture; Steinhauser, Religion des Nègres; Brinton, Myths of the World. The objective form
of conceptions and emotions, which are subsequently transformed into spirits, are found among
the superior races of our day, in the Christian hierarchy of angels, in popular tradition,
and in spiritualism.

[28] Fetishism may be observed in the civilized Aryan races, but still more plainly among the
Chinese and cognate races, among the Peruvians, Mexicans, etc. Castren, in his Finnische Mythologie
says that we find extraordinary instances of the lowest stage of fetishism among the Samoeides,
who directly worship all natural objects in themselves. The Finns, who are comparatively civilized
heathens, have attained to a higher phase of belief. But numerous examples, in every part of
the world, will occur to the intelligent reader.

[29] Numen really means the manifestation of power, from nuere. Varro makes Attius say: "Multis
nomen vestrum numenque ciendo." In Lucretius we have mentis numen, and also Numen Augusti.
An inscription discovered by Mommsen runs as follows:

     "P. Florus, etc. Dianae numine jussu posuit."

[30] The illustrious Du Bois Reymond delivered a lecture a few years ago, in which he made
it clear that the Semitic idea of one Almighty God led to the later and modern conception of
the unity of forces and the rational interpretation of the system of the universe. This important
testimony of so able a man confirms the theory set forth some years ago in the work of which
I have reproduced a part in the text.

[31] Some Jewish Christians of the Semitic race took refuge in a district of Syria, and retained
their primitive faith without further development, under the name of Nazarenes or Ebionites.
In the fourth century, Epiphanius and Jerome found these primitive Christians constant to the
old dogma, while Aryan Christianity had made gigantic strides, both in its ideas and social
organization. Among the Semites, even when they have partially accepted the dogma, it was and
is unproductive.

[32] Aristot., De anima; Cic., De legibus; Diog., Lae.

[33] A new thought entered my mind, whence others, differing from the first, arose; and as
I roamed from one to another I was tempted to close my eyes, and thought was changed into a dream.

[34] See the theory by Lotze of local signs in the formation of the idea of space, completed
and modified by Wundt and others.

[35] Sometimes the name of a person, or of some part of the human form, has been bestowed on
a natural object without reference to their analogy, but in this case the epithet has the converse
effect of leading us to imagine that it possesses the features or limbs of the human form.
And this is of equal value for our present inquiry.

[36] While these sheets were passing through the press, I was informed of Berg's work on the
Enjoyment of Music. ("Die Lust an der Musik." Berlin, 1879.) Berg, who is a realist, inquires
what is the source of the pleasure we experience from the regular succession of sounds, which
he holds to be the primary essence of music. He finds the cause in some of Darwin's theories
and researches. Darwin observes that the epoch of song coincides with that of love in the case
of singing animals, birds, insects, and some mammals; and from this Berg concludes that primitive
men, or rather anthropoids, made use of the voice to attract the attention of females. Hence
a relation was established between singing and the sentiments of love, rivalry, and pleasure;
this relation was indissolubly fused into the nature by heredity, and it persisted even after
singing ceased to be excited by its primitive cause. This applies to the general sense of pleasure
in music. We have next to inquire why the ear prefers certain sounds to others, certain combinations
to others, etc. Berg holds that it depends on negative causes, that the ear does not select
the most pleasing but the least painful sounds. He relies on Helmholtz's fundamental theory
of sounds. It seems to me that although Helmholtz's theory is true, that of Berg is erroneous,
since he is quite unable to prove his assertion that the effect produced by music is a negative
pleasure. Moreover, the Darwinian observations to which he traces the origin of the enjoyment
of music, not only rely on an arbitrary hypothesis, but do not explain why males should derive
any advantage from their voice, nor what pleasure and satisfaction females find in it. And
this, as Reinach justly observes in the Revue Philosophique, is the point on which the problem
turns.

Clark has recently suggested in the American Naturalist another theory worthy of consideration.
A musical sound is never simple but complex; it consists of one fundamental sound, and of other
harmonic sounds at close intervals; the first and most perceptible intervals are the 8th, 5th,
4th, and 3rd major. Each of the simple sounds which, taken together, constitute the whole sound,
causes the vibration of a special group of fibres in the auditory nerve. This fact, often repeated,
generates a kind of organic predisposition which is confirmed by heredity. If from any cause
one of these groups is set in motion, the other groups will have a tendency to vibrate. Therefore,
if a singing animal, weary of always repeating the same note, wishes to vary its height, he
will naturally choose one of the harmonic sounds of the first. The ultimate origin of the law
of melody in organized beings is therefore only the simultaneous harmony, realized in sounds,
of inorganic nature. This theory is confirmed by the analysis which has been often made of
the song of some birds: the intervals employed by these are generally the same as those on
which human melody is founded, the 8th, 5th, 4th, and 3rd major. Reinach, however, observes
that Beethoven, who in his Pastoral Symphony has reproduced the song of the nightingale, the
cuckoo, and the quail, makes their melodies to differ from those assigned to them by Clark.

The method and direction of the theories proposed by these authors are excellent; but I do
not believe that they have discovered the real origin of the sense of music and dancing. I
think that the suggestion given in the text, although it requires development, is nearer the
truth. Consciousness of the great law by which things exist in a classified form seems to me
to be the cause of the sense of graduated pleasure, which constitutes the essence of all the arts.

[37] See Beauquier's "Philosophie de la Musique."

[38] Serv. on the Æneid. What the oracles sang was termed carmentis: the seers used to be called
carmentes, and the books in which their sayings were inscribed were termed carmentorios.

[39] See Girard de Rialle: Mythologie Comparée. Vol. I. Paris, 1878. A valuable and learned work.

[40] The intense character of the worship of groves in Italy appears from Quintilianus, who
says, in speaking of Ennius: "Ennium sicut sacros vetustate lucos adoremus."

INDEX.

  A priori ideas, their definition, 7, 8;
    the source of myth, 9
  Abstraction, unconscious and explicit, 138;
    its degrees, 139-150.
  Æschylus, 110
  Alger on the doctrine of a future life, 74
  Animals and man, their intimate connection, 19;
    their embryogenic evolution, 19;
    their complete identity, 22;
    their self-consciousness, 50;
    the projection of themselves on other
    animals and phenomena, 51, 53, 54, 55, 161;
    experiments on, 60-64.
  Animation of extrinsic phenomena, 28, 58-65, 111, 125-128
  Anthropomorphism, 90, 97, 106, 181
  Apprehension, act of, 116;
    by animals, 118;
    psychical law of, 119;
    three elements of, 120;
    by a man, 122-127
  Arbrousset on the Basutos, 75
  Aristotle, his teaching, 231
  Aryan family, its primitive unity with the Semitic, 31;
    its mythology, 179, 197, 219;
    its conception of Christianity, 184-192

  Bridgman, Laura, 207

  Christ, the apotheosis of man, 187
  Christianity, its diffusion, 178-192;
    its anthropomorphism, 181

  Dead, the worship of, 15
  Demoniacal beliefs, 77, 78, 79
  Descartes, 234
  Doric school, 211
  Dreams, 253, 259, 270

  Entification, the term, 153;
    of speech, 310
  Eleatic school, 211
  Epicarmos, 109
  Evolution, of monotheism, 151;
    of the faculties of myth and science, 157;
    of language, 201-204;
    of writing, 209;
    of music, 295-303
  Experiments on animals, 60-64

  Fetish worship, 78, 94-97, 163, 168, 291, 311
  Finns, their mythology, 101

  Galileo, 235
  Greece, her philosophy, 210-217;
    her mythology, 99, 130

  Hallucinations, 272, 281
  Hawaïans, their concrete language, 86

  Ionic school, 210

  Kant, 233

  M'Lennan on the worship of plants and animals, 73
  Man, his intimate connection with animals, 19-23;
    his psychical force, 26;
    estimated according to his absolute value, 35;
    his power of reflection, 23, 52, 163;
    his connection with the universal system, 36
  Mannhardt, his Deutsche Mythologie, 100
  Max Müller, his theory of myth, 11, 99
  Mara, incubus, 77
  Monotheism, not the first intuition of man, 104
    its evolution, 151
  Multiplicity of souls, believed by various races, 165
  Myth, the spontaneous form of human intelligence, 1;
    its persistence, 3, 33, 136;
    its germ interchangeable with that of science, 9, 131, 132;
    its problem unsolved, 12;
    its gradual disappearance, 33;
    its constant forms, 40;
    its origin in reflex power, 91;
    its second form, 95;
    its evolution into science, 113;
    its various stages, 160-174
  Mythology, Indian, 10;
    Finnish, 101;
    Vedic, Greek, and Latin, 130, 198;
    its historic results, 175-192;
    Aryan, 179, 196, 219;
    Pagan, 184
  Music, its evolution, 295-305

  New Zealand, original meaning of words, 89

  Perception, primitive human, 69;
    identical in man and in animals, 133;
    the product and cause of myth, 153
  Personification, by animals, 66;
    by man, 80;
    of internal perceptions, 81;
    of homologous types, 81;
    of specific types, 84;
  Pindar, 199
  Platonic school, 220-230
  Polynesian language, 89
  Polytheism, its origin, 98
  Pythagorean school, 214-217

  Reflex power in man, 23, 52;
    its slow growth, 163
  Ribot, his Psychologie Allemande, 39
  Roman mythology, 95

  Sanscrit roots, 201
  Science, a factor of intellectual life, 4;
    its germ interchangeable with myth, 9, 131, 132;
    as a whole, revealed in its several parts, 35;
    its effect on myth, 112,194
  Semitic idea, 177;
    race, 191
  Social life based on the order of nature, 38
  Societies, the genesis of, 30
  Sociology, its foundation in the study of myth, 41, 45
  Sophocles, 110
  Spencer, his Sociology, 14

  Tahiti, 89
  Tasmanians, their customs, 42-44
  Thales, his teaching, 212
  Transmigration of souls, 166
  Tylor on Primitive Culture, 14, 16;
    his theory of animism, 16

  Veda, the personification of phenomena, 71;
    Vedic mythology, 76, 98, 130, 219;
    Vedic hymn, 217
  Victory of the natural sciences, 237

  Zeller on monotheism, 108

  THE END.