And because indentures and deeds and covenants are sealed, these passages must be accepted
as part of the evidence that Shakespeare narrowly escaped being made Lord High Chancellor of
England! It requires all the learning and the logic of a Lord Chief Justice and a London barrister
to establish a connection between such premises and such a conclusion. And if Shakespeare's
lines smell of law, how strong is the odor of parchment and red tape in these, from Drayton's
Fourth Eclogue (1605):

  "Kindnesse againe with kindnesse was repay'd,
  And with sweet kisses covenants were sealed."

We ask pardon of the reader for the production of contemporary evidence, that, in Shakespeare's
day, a knowledge of the significance and binding nature of a seal was not confined to him among
poets; for surely a man must be both a lawyer and a Shakespearean commentator to forget that
the use of seals is as old as the art of writing, and, perhaps, older, and that the practice
has furnished a figure of speech to poets from the time when it was written, that out of the
whirlwind Job heard, "It is turned as clay to the seal," and probably from a period yet more
remote.

And is Lord Campbell really in earnest in the following grave and precisely expressed opinion?

"In the next scene, [of "Othello,"] Shakespeare gives us a very distinct proof that he was
acquainted with Admiralty law, as well as with the procedure of Westminster Hall. Describing
the feat of the Moor in carrying off Desdemona against her father's consent, which might either
make or mar his fortune, according as the act might be sanctioned or nullified, Iago observes,--

  "'Faith, he to-night hath hoarded a land carack:
  If it prove a lawful prize, he's made forever';

the trope indicating that there would be a suit in the High Court of Admiralty to determine
the validity of the capture"!--p. 91.

"Why did not his Lordship go farther, and decide, that, in the figurative use of the term,
"land carack," Shakespeare gave us very distinct proof that he was acquainted with maritime
life, and especially with the carrying-trade between Spain and the West Indies? We respectfully
submit to the court the following passage from Middleton and Rowley's "Changeling,"--first
published in 1653, but written many years before. Jasperino, seeing a lady, calls out,--

  "Yonder's another vessel: Ile board her:
  if she be lawfall prize, down goes her topsail."
  Act i. Sig. B. 2.

And with it we submit the following points, and ask a decision in our favor. First, That they,
the said Middleton and Rowley, have furnished, in the use of the phrase "lawful prize," in
this passage, very distinct proof that they were acquainted with Admiralty law. Second, That,
in the use of the other phrases, "board," and especially "down goes her topsail," they have
furnished yet stronger evidence that they had been sailors on board armed vessels, and that
the trope indicates, that, had not the vessel or lady in question lowered her topsail or top-knot,
she would then and there have been put mercilessly to the sword.

But what shall we think of the acumen and the judgment of a Chief Justice, a man of letters,
and a man of the world, who brings forward such passages as the following as part of the evidence
bearing upon the question of Shakespeare's legal acquirements?--

  "Come; fear not you; good counsellors lack
  no clients."
  Measure for Measure. Act i. Sc. 2.

  "One that before the judgement carries poor
  souls to hell."
  Comedy of Errors. Act iv. Sc. 2.

  "Well, Time is the old Justice that examines
  all such offenders,--and let Time try."
  As You Like It. Act iv. Sc. 1.

  "And that old common arbitrator, Time."
  Troilus and Cressida. Act iv. Sc. 5.

  "No cock of mine; you crow too like a craven."
  Taming of the Shrew. Act ii. Sc. 1.

  "Bestial oblivion or some craven scruple."
  Hamlet. Act iv. Sc. 4.

By which last line, according to Lord Campbell, (p. 55,) "Shakespeare
shows that he was acquainted with the law for regulating 'trials by
battle'"! Some say, the bee
  stings: but I say, 'tis the bee's wax; for I did
  but seal once to a thing, and I was never mine
  own man since."--2 Henry VI. Act vi. Sc. 2.

Upon citing which, his Lordship exclaims,--

"Surely Shakespeare must have been employed to write deeds on parchment in courthand, and to
apply the wax to them in the form of seals. One does not understand how he should, on any other
theory of his bringing-up, have been acquainted with these details"!

One does not; but we submit to the court, that, if two were to lay their heads together after
the manner of Sydney Smith's vestrymen, they might bring it about.

In aid of his Lordship's further studies, we make the following suggestion. He doubtless knows
that one of the earliest among our small stock of traditions about Shakespeare is that recorded
by Aubrey as being derived from Stratford authority, that his father was a butcher, and that
"when he was a boy he exercised his father's trade, but when he kill'd a calfe, he wold do
it in a high style, and make a speech." Sc. 2.

how can he resist the conclusion, that, although the divine Williams may not have run with
"Forty," it is highly probable that he did kill for Keyser? Let his Lordship also remember
that other old tradition, mentioned by Rowe, that John Shakespeare was "a considerable dealer
in wool," and that William, upon leaving school, "seems to have given entirely into that way
of living which his father proposed to him"; and remember, also, this passage from another
of Shakespeare's earliest plays:--

  "He is too picked, too spruce, too affected,
  too odd, as it were, too peregrinate, as I may
  call it...He draweth out the thread of
  his verbosity finer than the staple of his argument."
 --Love's Labor's Lost. Act v. Sc. 1.

Is there not a goodly part of the wool-stapler's craft, as well as of the art of rhetoric,
compressed into that one sentence by the hydraulic power of Shakespeare's genius? Does it not
show that he was initiated in the mysteries of long and short staple before he wrote this,
perhaps, his earliest play?

Could these lines have been written by a man who had not been both a considerable dealer in
wool, and a butcher who killed a calf in high style and made a speech? A wool-man, butcher,
and dealer in skewers lately observed to him that his nephew (an idle lad) could only assist
him in making them;--he could rough hew them, but I was obliged to shape their ends! To shape
the ends of wool-skewers, i.e., to point them, requires a degree of skill; any one can rough-hew
them. Whoever recollects the profession of Shakespeare's father will admit that his son might
be no stranger to such terms. "I have frequently seen packages of wool pinn'd up with skewers."--STEEVENS.

Lucky wool-man, butcher, and dealer in skewers! to furnish at once a comment upon the great
philosophical tragedy and a proof that its author and you were both of a trade! Fortunate Farmer,
to have heard the story! and most sagacious Steevens, to have penetrated its hidden meaning,
recollecting felicitously that you had seen packages of wool pinn'd up with skewers! But, O
wisest, highest-and-deepest-minded Shakespeare, to have remembered, as you were propounding,
Hamlet-wise, one of the great unsolvable mysteries of life, the skewers that you, being an
idle lad, could but rough-hew, leaving to your careful father the skill-requiring task to shape
their ends!--ends without which they could not have bound together the packages of wool with
which you loaded the carts that backed up to the door in Henley Street, or have penetrated
the veal of the calves that you killed in such a high style and with so much eloquence, and
which loaded the tray that you daily bore on your shoulder to the kitchen-door of New Place,
yet unsuspecting that you were to become its master!

Yet we would not too strongly insist upon this evidence, that Shakespeare in his boyhood served
both as a butcher's and a wool-stapler's apprentice; for we venture to think that we have discovered
evidence in his works that their author was a tailor. For, in the first place, the word "tailor"
occurs no less than thirty-five times in his plays. [The reader is to suppose that we are able
to record this fact by an intimate acquaintance with every line that Shakespeare wrote, and
by a prodigious effort of memory, and not by reference to Mrs. Clark's Concordance.] "Measures"
occurs nearly thrice as often; "shears" is found no less than six times; "thimble," three times;
"goose," no less than twenty-seven times!--and when we find, that, in all his thirty-seven
plays, the word "cabbage" occurs but once, and then with the deliberate explanation that it
means "worts" and is "good cabbage," may we not regard such reticence upon this tender point
as a touching confirmation of the truth of our theory? See, too, the comparison which Shakespeare
uses, when he desires to express the service to which his favorite hero, Prince Hal, will put
the manners of his wild companions:--

  "So, like gross terms,
  The Prince will, in the perfectness of time,
  Cast off his followers; and their memory
  Shall as a pattern or a measure live
  By which his Grace must mete the lives of
  others."

  2 Henry IV., Act iv. Sc. 4.

  Act v. Sc. 4.

Cleopatra, too, who, we may be sure from her conduct, was addicted to very "low necks," after
Antony's death becomes serious, and declares her intention to have something "after the high
Roman fashion." And what but a reminiscence of the disgust which a tailor of talent has for
mending is it that breaks out in the Barons' defiant message to King John?--

  "The King hath dispossess'd himself of us;
  We will not line his thin bestained cloak."

  King John, Act iv. Sc. 3.

A memory, too, of the profuse adornment with which he had been called upon to decorate some
very tender youth's or miss's fashionable suit intrudes itself even in his most thoughtful
tragedy:--

  "The canker galls the infants of the Spring
  Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd."

  Hamlet, Act i. Sc. 3.

In "Macbeth," desiring to pay the highest compliment to Macduff's judgment and knowledge, he
makes Lennox say,--

  "He is noble, wise, judicious, and best knows
  The fits of the season."--Act iv. Sc. 2.

Not the last fall or last spring style, be it observed, but that of the season, which it is
most necessary for the fashionable tailor to know. In writing the first scene of the "Second
Part of Henry IV.," his mind was evidently crossed by the shade of some over-particular dandy,
whose fastidious nicety as to the set of his garments he had failed to satisfy; for he makes
Northumberland compare himself to a man who,

  "Impatient of his fit, breaks like a fire
  Out of his keeper's arms."

And yet we must not rely too much even upon evidence so strong and so cumulative as this. For
it would seem as if Shakespeare must have been a publisher, and have known the anxiety attendant
upon the delay of an author not in high health to complete a work the first part of which has
been put into the printer's hands. Else, how are we to account for his feeling use of this
beautiful metaphor in "Twelfth Night"?

  "Lady, you are the cruell'st she alive,
  If you will lead these graces to the grave,
  And leave the world no copy."

  Act i. Sc. 5.

But this part of our subject expands before us, and we must stay our hand. We merely offer
these hints as our modest contribution to the attempts to decide from phrases used in Shakespeare's
works what were his avocations before he became a playwright, and return to Lord Campbell and
Mr. Rushton.

When Malone, in 1790, broached his theory, that Shakespeare had been an attorney's clerk, he
cited in support of it twenty-four passages. Mr. Rushton's pamphlet brings forward ninety-five,
more or less; Lord Campbell's book, one hundred and sixty. But, from what he has seen of it,
the reader will not be surprised at learning that a large number of the passages cited by his
Lordship must be thrown aside, as having no bearing whatever on the question of Shakespeare's
legal acquirements. They evince no more legal knowledge, no greater familiarity with legal
phraseology, than is apparent in the ordinary conversation of intelligent people generally,
even at this day. Mr. Rushton, more systematic than his Lordship, has been also more careful;
and from the pages of both we suppose that there might be selected a round hundred of phrases
which could be fairly considered as having been used by Shakespeare with a consciousness of
their original technicality and of their legal purport. This is not quite in the proportion
of three to each of his thirty-seven plays; and if we reckon his sonnets and poems according
to their lines, (and both Mr. Rushton and Lord Campbell cite from them,) the proportion falls
to considerably less than three. But Malone's twenty-four instances are of nearly as much value
in the consideration of the question as Lord Campbell's and Mr. Rushton's hundred; for the
latter gentlemen have added little to the strength, though considerably to the number, of the
array on the affirmative side of the point in dispute; and we have seen, that, of the law-phrases
cited by them from Shakespeare's pages, the most recondite, as well as the most common and
simple, are to be found in the works of the Chroniclers, whose very language Shakespeare used,
and in those of the playwrights his contemporaries.

Our new advocates of the old cause, however, quote two passages which, from the freedom with
which law-phrases are scattered through them, it is worth while to reproduce here. The first
is the well-known speech in the grave-digging scene of "Hamlet":--

"Ham. There's another: Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer? Where be his quiddits now,
his quillets, his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he suffer this rude knave, now,
to knock him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of his action of battery?
Humph! The very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in this box; and must the inheritor
himself have no more? ha?"--Act v. Sc. 1.

The second is the following Sonnet, (No. 46,) not only the language, but the very fundamental
conceit of which, it will be seen, is purely legal:--

  "Mine Eye and Heart are at a mortal war
  How to divide the conquest of thy sight;
  Mine Eye my Heart thy picture's sight would bar,
  My Heart mine Eye the freedom of that right.
  My Heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie
  (A closet never pierc'd with crystal eyes);
  But the defendant doth that plea deny,
  And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
  To 'cide this title is impanelled
  A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the Heart,
  And by their verdict is determined
  The clear Eye's moiety, and the dear Heart's part;
  As thus: Mine Eye's due is thine outward part,
  And my Heart's right, thine inward love of heart."

It would seem, indeed, as if passages like these must be received as evidence that Shakespeare
had more familiarity with legal phraseology, if not a greater knowledge of it, than could have
been acquired except by habitual use in the course of professional occupation. But let us see
if he is peculiar even in this crowding of many law-terms into a single brief passage. We turn
to the very play open at our hand, from which we have quoted before, (and which, by the way,
we have not selected as exceptional in this regard,) "The Miseries of Enforced Marriage," and
find the following passage in Act V.:--

  "Doctor. Now, Sir, from this your oath and bond,
  Faith's pledge and seal of conscience, you have run,
  Broken all contracts, and forfeiture
  Justice hath now in suit against your soul:
  Angels are made the jurors, who are witnesses
  Unto the oath you took; and God himself,
  Maker of marriage, He that hath seal'd the deed,
  As a firm lease unto you during life,
  Sits now as Judge of your transgression:
  The world informs against you with this voice.--
  If such sins reign, what mortals can rejoice?
  Scarborow. What then ensues to me?
  Doctor. A heavy doom, whose execution's
  Now served upon your conscience," etc.
  p. 91, D.O.P., Ed. 1825.

Indeed, the hunting of a metaphor or a conceit into the ground is a fault characteristic of
Elizabethan literature, and one from which Shakespeare's boldness, no less than his genius,
was required to save him; and we have seen already how common was the figurative use of law-phrases
among the poets and dramatists of his period. Hamlet's speech and the Forty-sixth Sonnet cannot,
therefore, be accepted as evidence of his attorneyship, except in so far as they and like passages
may be regarded as giving some support to the opinion that Shakespeare was but one of many
in his time who abandoned law for letters.

For we object not so much to the conclusion at which Lord Campbell arrives as to his mode of
arriving at it. His method of investigation, which is no method at all, but the mere noting
of passages in the order in which he found them in looking through Shakespeare's works, is
the rudest and least intelligent that could have been adopted; and his inference, that, because
Shakespeare makes Jack Cade lament that the skin of an innocent lamb should be made parchment,
and affirm that it is not the bee, but the bee's wax, that stings, therefore he must have been
employed to write deeds on parchment and append wax to them in the form of seals, is a fair
specimen both of the acuteness and the logic which his Lordship displays in this his latest
effort to unite Law and Literature.

There are, however, very considerable grounds for the opinion that Shakespeare had more than
a layman's acquaintance with the technical language of the law. For it must be admitted, in
the first place, that he exhibits a remarkable acquaintance with it. That other playwrights
and poets of his day manifest a like familiarity (as we have seen they do) precludes us, indeed,
from regarding the mere occurrence of law-terms in his works as indications of early training
proper to him alone. But they who, on the strength of the not unfrequent occurrence of legal
phrases in many of the plays and much of the poetry of the Elizabethan period, would maintain
that Shakespeare's use of them furnishes no basis for the opinion that he acquired his knowledge
of them professionally, must also assume and support the position, that, in the case of contemporary
dramatists and poets, this use of the technical language of conveyancing and pleading also
indicates no more than an ordinary acquaintance with it, and that, in comparing his works with
theirs in this regard, we may assume the latter to have been produced by men who had no professional
acquaintance with the law; because, if they had such professional acquaintance with legal phraseology,
its appearance in their works as well as in Shakespeare's would manifestly strengthen rather
than invalidate the conclusion, that his familiarity with it was acquired as they acquired
theirs. This position is, to say the least, a very difficult one to maintain, and one which
any considerate student of Elizabethan literature would be very unwilling to assume. For our
ignorance of the personal life of Shakespeare is remarkable only because he was Shakespeare;
and we know little, if any, more about the greater number of his literary contemporaries than
we do about him. It cannot even be safely presumed, for instance, that George Wilkins, the
author of the law-besprinkled passage just above quoted from the "Miseries of Enforced Marriage,"
was not a practising attorney or barrister before or even at the time when he wrote that play.
On the contrary, it is extremely probable, nay, quite certain, that he and many other dramatic
authors of the period when he flourished, (1600-1620,) and of the whole Elizabethan period,
(1575-1625,) were nestling attorneys or barristers before they became full-fledged dramatists.

We are not without contemporary evidence upon this point. Thomas Nash, friend to Robert Greene,
a playwright, poet, and novelist, whose works were in vogue just before Shakespeare wrote,
in an "Epistle to the Gentlemen Students of the Two Universities," with which, according to
the fashion of the time, he introduced Greene's "Menaphon" (1587)[D] to the reader, has the
following paragraph:--

[Footnote D: Lord Campbell gives the date 1589; but see Mr. Dyce's indisputable authority.
Greene's Works. Vol. I., pp. xxxvii. and ciii.]

"I will turn my back to my first text of studies of delight, and talk a little in friendship
with a few of our trivial translators. But, oh grief! Tempus edax rerum,--what is that will
last always? The sea, exhaled by drops, will, in continuance, be dry; and Seneca, let blood
line by line and page by page, at length must needs die to our stage."

It has most unaccountably been assumed that this passage refers to Shakespeare;[E] and it is
even so cited by Lord Campbell himself,--to our surprise, when we remember his professional
training and experience as a sifter of evidence. But, as far as regards its reference to a
leaving of law for literature, it is clearly of general application. Nash says, "It is a common
practice, now-a-days, amongst a sort of shifting companions, etc., to leave the trade of Noverint,
whereto they were born, and busy themselves," etc. By the trade of Noverint he meant that of
an attorney. The term was not uncommonly applied to members of that profession, because of
the phrase, Noverint universi per presentes, (Know all men by these presents,) with which deeds,
bonds, and many other legal instruments then began. And Nash's testimony accords with what
we know of the social and literary history of the age. There was no regular army in Elizabeth's
time; and the younger sons of gentlemen and well-to-do yeomen, who received from their fathers
little more than an education and a very small allowance, and who did not become either military
or maritime adventurers, opening their oyster with a sword, entered the Church or the profession
of the law in its higher or lower grade; and as at that period there was much more demand for
lawyers and much less for clergymen than there is now, and the Church had ceased to be a stepping-stone
to political power and patronage, while the law had become more than ever before an avenue
to fame, to fortune, and to rank, by far the greater number of these young gentlemen aspired
to the woolsack. But then, as now, the early years of professional life were seasons of sharp
trial and bitter disappointment. Necessity pressed sorely or pleasure wooed resistlessly, and
the slender purse wasted rapidly away while the young attorney or barrister awaited the employment
that did not come. He knew then, as now he knows, "the rich man's scorn, the proud man's contumely";
nay, he felt, as now he sometimes feels, the tooth of hunger gnawing through the principles
and firm resolves that partition a life of honor and self-respect from one darkened by conscious
loss of rectitude, if not by open shame. Happy,-- yet, perhaps, oh, unhappy,--he who now in
such a strait can wield the pen of a ready writer!--for the press, perchance, may afford him
a support which, though temporary and precarious, will hold him up until he can stand upon
more stable ground. But in the reigns of Good Queen Bess and Gentle Jamie there was no press.
There was, however, an incessant demand for new plays. Play-going was the chief intellectual
recreation of that day for all classes, high and low. It filled the place of our newspapers,
our books, our lectures, our concerts, our picture-seeing, and, in a great measure, of our
social gatherings and amusements, of whatever nature. It is hardly extravagant to say, that
there were then more new plays produced in London in a month than there are now in Great Britain
and the United States in a year. To play-writing, then, the needy young attorney or barrister
possessed of literary talent turned his eyes at that day, as he does now to journalism; and
it is almost beyond a doubt, that, of the multitudinous plays of that period which have survived
and the thousands which have perished, a large proportion were produced by the younger sons
of country gentlemen, who, after taking their degrees at Oxford or Cambridge, or breaking away
from those classic bounds ungraduated, entered the Inns of Court, according to the custom of
their day and their condition. They wrote plays in Latin, and even in English, for themselves
to act; and they got the professional players to act popular plays for them on festal days.
What more natural, then, than that those who had the ability and the need should seek to recruit
their slender means by supplying the constant demand for new plays? and how inevitable that
some of them, having been successful in their dramatic efforts, should give themselves up to
play-writing! As do the great, so will the small. What the Inns-of-Court man did, the attorney
would try to do. The players, though they loved the patronage of a lord, were very democratic
in the matter of play-making. If a play filled the house, they did not trouble themselves about
the social or professional rank of him who wrote it; and thus came about that "common practice"
for "shifting companions" to "leave the trade of Noverint" and "busy themselves with the endeavors
of art"; and hence it is that the plays of the period of which we are writing have, in many
passages, so strong a tinge of law.

[Footnote E: It seems clear, on the contrary, that Nash's object was to sneer at Jasper Heywood,
Alexander Nevil, John Studley, Thomas Nuce, and Thomas Newton,--one or more of them,--whose
Seneca, his Tenne Tragedies translated into Englysh, was published in 1581. It is a very grievous
performance; and Shakespeare, who had read it thoroughly, made sport of it in A Midsummer Night's
Dream.]

One reason for the regarding of Nash's sneer as especially directed against Shakespeare is
the occurrence in it of the phrase, "whole Hamlets,--I should say, handfuls of tragical speeches,"
which has been looked upon as an allusion to Shakespeare's great tragedy. But the earliest
edition of "Hamlet" known was published in 1603, and even this is an imperfect and surreptitiously
obtained copy of an early sketch of the play. That Shakespeare had written this tragedy in
1586, when he was but twenty-two years old, is improbable to the verge of impossibility; and
Nash's allusion, if, indeed, he meant a punning sneer at a play, (which is not certain.) was,
doubtless, to an old lost version of the Danish tragedy upon which Shakespeare built his "Hamlet."

We have, then, direct contemporary testimony, that, at the period of Shakespeare's entrance
upon London life, it was a common practice for those lawyers whom want of success or an unstable
disposition impelled to a change in their avocation to devote themselves to writing or translating
plays; and this statement is not only sustained by all that we know of the customs of the time
to which it refers, but is strongly confirmed by the notably frequent occurrence of legal phrases
in the dramatic literature of that age.

But the question, then, arises,--and it is one which, under the circumstances, must be answered,--To
what must we attribute the fact, that, of all the plays that have come down to us, written
between 1580 and 1620, Shakespeare's are most noteworthy in this respect? For it is true, that,
among all the dramatic writers of that period, whose works have survived, not one uses the
phraseology of the law with the frequency, the freedom, and the correctness of Shakespeare.
Beaumont, for instance, was a younger son of a Judge of the Common Pleas, and, following the
common routine that we have noticed, after leaving the University, became an Inns-of-Court
man, but soon abandoned law for literature; his friend and associate, Fletcher, was the son
of a bishop, but had an uncle who was a lawyer and a diplomatist, and is himself believed to
have been of the Inns of Court. Rich gleanings of law-terms might, therefore, be expected from
the plays written by these dramatists; yet it may safely be asserted, that from Shakespeare's
thirty-seven plays at least twice as many passages marked by legal phraseology might be produced,
as from the fifty-four written by Beaumont and Fletcher, together or alone! a fact the great
significance of which is heightened by another,--that it is only the vocabulary of the law
to the use of which Shakespeare exhibits this proclivity. He avails himself, it is true, of
the peculiar language of the physician, the divine, the husbandman, the soldier, and the sailor;
but he uses these only on very rare occasions, by way of description, comparison, or illustration,
when something in the scene or the subject in hand suggests them. And the word in this peculiar
and most technical sense occurs five times in Shakespeare's thirty-seven plays, but only in
a single passage (if our memory and Mr. Dyce's notes serve us) in the fifty-four plays of Beaumont
and Fletcher. Equal, or greater, is the comparative frequency with which Shakespeare uses other
legal phrases; and much wider is the disparity, in this regard, between him and the other dramatic
writers of his whole period,--Marlowe, Greene, Peele, Kyd, Lilly, Chapman, Jonson, Middleton,
Marston, Ford, Webster, Massinger, and the undistinguished crowd.

These facts dispose in great measure of the plausible suggestion, which has been made,--that,
as the courts of law in Shakespeare's time occupied public attention much more than they do
at present, they having then regulated "the season," as the sittings of Parliament (not then
frequent or stated) do now,[F] they would naturally be frequented by the restless, inquiring
spirits of the time, Shakespeare among them, and that there he and his fellow-dramatists picked
up the law-phrases which they wove into their plays and poems. But if this view of the case
were the correct one, we should not find that disparity in the use of legal phrases which we
have just remarked. Shakespeare's genius would manifest itself in the superior effect with
which he used knowledge acquired in this manner; but his genius would not have led him to choose
the dry and affected phraseology of the law as the vehicle of his flowing thought, and to use
it so much oftener than any other of the numerous dramatists of his time, to all of whom the
courts were as open as to him. And the suggestion which we are now considering fails in two
other most important respects. For we do not find either that Shakespeare's use of legal phrases
increased with his opportunities of frequenting the courts of law, or that the law-phrases,
his use of which is most noteworthy and of most importance in the consideration of the question
before us, are those which he would have heard oftenest in the course of the ordinary business
of the courts in his day. Here we buy and sell houses and lands almost as we trade in corn
and cotton; but in England the transfer of the title of a piece of real estate of any consequence
is a serious and comparatively rare occurrence, that makes great work for attorneys and conveyancing
counsel; and two hundred and fifty years ago the facilities in this respect were very much
less than they are now. Shakespeare could hardly have picked up his conveyancer's jargon by
hanging round the courts of law; and we find,--to return to the first objection,--that, in
his early plays, written just after he arrived in London, he uses this peculiar phraseology
just as freely and with as exact a knowledge as he displayed in after years, when (on the supposition
in question) he must have become much more familiar with it. Shakespeare's earliest work that
has reached us is, doubtless, to be found in "King Henry the Sixth," "The Comedy of Errors,"
and "Love's Labor's Lost." In the very earliest form of Part II. of the first-named play, ("The
First Part of the Contention betwixt the two Houses of York and Lancaster," to which Shakespeare
was doubtless a contributor, the part of Cade being among his contributions,) we find him making
Cade declare, (Act iv. Sc. 7,) "Men shall hold of me in capite; and we charge and command that
wives be as free as heart can wish or tongue can tell." Both the phrases that we have Italicized
express tenures, and very uncommon tenures of land. In the "Comedy of Errors," when Dromio
of Syracuse says, "There's no time for a man to recover his hair that grows bald by nature,"
[Hear, O Rowland! and give ear, O Phalon!] his master replies, "May he not do it by fine and
recovery?" Fine and recovery was a process by which, through a fictitious suit, a transfer
was made of the title in an entailed estate. In "Love's Labor's Lost," almost without a doubt
the first comedy that Shakespeare wrote, on Boyet's offering to kiss Maria, (Act ii. Sc. 1,)
she declines the salute, and says, "My lips are no common, though several they be." This passage--an
important one for his purpose--Lord Campbell has passed by, as he has some others of nearly
equal consequence. Maria's allusion is plainly to tenancy in common by several (i.e., divided,
distinct) title. (See Coke upon Littleton, Lib. iii. Cap. iv. Sec. 292.) She means, that her
lips are several as being two, and (as she says in the next line) as belonging in common to
her fortunes and herself,--yet they were no common pasture.

[Footnote F: Falstaff, for instance, speaks of "the wearing out of six fashions, which is four
terms or two actions."]

Here, then, is Shakespeare using the technical language of conveyancers in his earliest works,
and before he had had much opportunity to haunt the courts of law in London, even could he
have made such legal acquirements in those schools. We find, too, that he uses law-terms in
general with frequency notably greater--in an excess of three or four to one--than any of the
other playwrights of his day, when so many playwrights were or had been Noverints or of the
Inns of Court; that this excess is not observable with regard to his use of the vocabulary
peculiar to any other occupation or profession, even that of the actor, which we know that
he practised for many years; but that, on the contrary, although he uses other technical language
correctly, he avails himself of that of any single art of occupation with great rarity, and
only upon special occasions. Lord Campbell remarks, as to the correctness with which Shakespeare
uses legal phrases,--and this is a point upon which his Lordship speaks with authority,--that
he is amazed "by the accuracy and propriety with which they are introduced," and in another
place adds, that Shakespeare "uniformly lays down good law"; and it is not necessary to be
a Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench to know that his Lordship is fully justified in assuring
us that "there is nothing [of the kind (?)] so dangerous as for one not of the craft to tamper
with our free-masonry." Remembering, then, that genius, though it reveals general and even
particular truths, and facilitates all acquirement, does not impart facts or the knowledge
of technical terms, in what manner can we answer or set aside the question that we have partly
stated before,--How did it happen, that, in an age when it was a common practice for young
attorneys and barristers to leave their profession and take to writing plays and poems, one
playwright left upon his works a stronger, clearer, sharper legal stamp than we can detect
upon those of any other, and that he used the very peculiar and, to a layman, incomprehensible
language of the law of real property, as it then existed, in his very earliest plays, written
soon after he, a raw, rustic youth, bred in a retired village, arrived in London? How did it
happen that this playwright fell into the use of that technical phraseology, the proper employment
of which, more than any other, demands special training, and that he availed himself of it
with apparent unconsciousness, not only so much oftener than any of his contemporaries, but
with such exact knowledge, that one who has passed a long life in the professional employment
of it, speaking as it were officially from the eminent position which he has won,--Lord Campbell,--declares,
that,

"While novelists and dramatists are constantly making mistakes as to the law of marriage, of
wills, and of inheritance, to Shakespeare's law, lavishly as he propounds it, there can neither
be demurrer, nor bill of exceptions, nor writ of error"?

Must we believe, that the man, who, among all the lawyer-playwrights of his day, showed,--not,
be it noticed, (as we are at present regarding his works,) the profoundest knowledge of the
great principles of law and equity, although he did that too,--but the most complete mastery
of the technical phrases, the jargon, of the law and of its most abstruse branch,--that relating
to real estate,--and who used it very much the oftenest of them all, and with an air of as
entire unconsciousness as if it were a part of the language of his daily life, making no mistakes
that can be detected by a learned professional critic,--must we believe that this man was distinguished
among those play-writing lawyers, not only by his genius, but his lack of particular acquaintance
with the law? Or shall we rather believe that the son of the High Bailiff of Stratford, whose
father was well-to-do in the world, and who was a somewhat clever lad and ambitious withal,
was allowed to commence his studies for a profession for which his cleverness fitted him and
by which he might reasonably hope to rise at least to moderate wealth and distinction, and
that he continued these studies until his father's loss of property, aided, perhaps, by some
of those acts of youthful indiscretion which clever lads as well as dull ones sometimes will
commit, threw him upon his own resources,--and that then, having townsmen, perhaps fellow-students
and playfellows, among the actors in London, and having used his pen, as we may be sure he
had, for other purposes than engrossing and drawing precedents, he, like so many others of
his time, left his trade of Noverint and went up to the metropolis to busy himself with endeavors
of art? One of these conclusions is in the face of reason, probability, and fact; the other
in accordance with them all.

       *       *       *       *       *

