  Loud pealed the loyal anthem, and rattled all the drums,
  And, as the guard presented, the cry went up, "He comes!"
  He steps upon the platform, and, while the plaudits ring,
  A King hangs round an Emperor's neck, an Emperor hugs a King;
  And, with impartial kisses on both cheeks duly pressed,
  The guest does homage to his host, the host salutes his guest.

The Emperor then, having shaken Mr. Punch warmly by the hand, departed with his royal host.
After this, the three potentates, Punch the Only, FOOZLER THE FIFTH, and the Baratarian Emperor,
called upon one another at intervals of half an hour. This process occupied the afternoon.

For the evening a state-ball at the Royal Palace had been announced. Thither, at the appointed
hour, Mr. Punch and his hoary associate were conveyed. As they approached, the royal band struck
up a martial air, the Lord Chamberlain advanced to meet them, and ushered them into the magnificent
hall in which the guests were assembling. From this a wide double staircase led up to a marble
gallery. Hall, gallery, and staircase were filled with a brilliant crowd; the men arrayed in
every variety of uniform; the ladies, to a woman, in V-shaped dresses, the openness of which
appeared to vary in a direct ratio to the age of their wearers.

"We will repose awhile," Mr. Punch remarked to the Father, "and scan the multitude. This, my
dear Tempus, is the pick of Society. That stout lady, with a face like a haughty turtle, is
the Duchess of DOUBLECHIN; that graceful little woman next to her is Lady ANGELINA BATTLEAXE--she
is a dress-maker."

"A what?" inquired Father TIME.

"A dress-maker," answered the Master, calmly.

  "In her shop, ancient notions forsaking,
    The proud ANGELINA unbends;
  And her figure's a tall one for making
    A fit for the figures of friends.
  Our cynical latter-day Catos
    Are dumb when invited to dine
  With a Marquis who deals in potatoes,
    Or an Earl who takes orders for wine.
  And, though old-fashioned folk think it funny,
    It's as common as death, or as debts,
  To find gentlemen making their money
    Out of shops for the making of bets.

The stout puffy old fellow there is the wealthiest man in Jupiter. He floats mines, asteroid
mines mostly, and makes it pay him. He can command the very best society. Those ladies clustering
round the Prince-Royal come from over the ocean. Pretty, but twangy. A fresh consignment arrives
every year. And the Prince-Royal has the pick of them."

But before Mr. Punch could finish his explanatory sketch, a tremendous uproar was heard in
the court-yard of the Palace. There was a sound as of a huge mob shouting in unison, shots
were heard, and cries of "Liberty for Ever:" vent the air. The royal guests were in a state
of terrible agitation. An orderly covered with mud forced his way through the crowd, up the
stairs, and stood before the King.

"Your Majesty," he panted, "a revolution has broken out. The populace has erected barricades,
the deposition of your House has been declared, and a Republic proclaimed. The mob is now marching
to the Palace."

The King drew himself up to his full height. Where are my Golf-clubs? he asked in a calm voice.

"Your Majesty, they have been seized and secreted."

"Then all is lost. It only remains for me to depart," was the King's heartbroken reply. "I
will, in person, announce my resignation." "I resign!" shouted the King, appearing on a balcony
overlooking the court-yard. Deafening cheers greeted this announcement. "Bless you, my children!"
sobbed the King--"I am off to the station. Take care of my poodle, and my pet parrot."

At this the mob unanimously burst into tears. They insisted on accompanying the deposed monarch
to the station, the popular band playing "The Dead March in Saul." But the King remained calm,
and marched on without swerving. At the station he took his seat silently in the Royal Balloon,
a whistle was heard, and the car floated off into space.

"I cannot say I think much of all that," said Mr. Punch. "In our part of the Universe we generally
manage to get a little more bloodshed out of it."

       *       *       *       *       *

VISIT TO URANUS.

The next place that the distinguished travellers visited was Uranus, where Mr. Punch and his
companion were much surprised to find the entire population members of the legal profession.

"I have really no time to attend to you," said one of the inhabitants, when questioned. "I
have an appointment before a Chief Clerk in Chancery of great importance--it is to decide whether
some children shall be sent to school with money left to them by their grandfather, or if it
shall be saved up until they come of age? It would be better for the children that they should
be educated, from a layman's point of view; but, then, this is a matter of law and not expediency."

"And how will it go?"

"Oh, of course, against the children. I am their father, and appear for them. But the application
is a good thing, although it's sure to be unsuccessful--good for them, and good for me."

"But how can that be?"

"You are really very dense," said the Inhabitant of Uranus. "Haven't you noticed that the entire
population is concerned in one vast Chancery suit; consequently, on attaining majority, one
man becomes a judge, another a barrister, a third a solicitor, and so on, and so on. Why, the
place would be a perfect Paradise to your friend Mr. A. BRIEFLESS JUNIOR! It is, at this time
of day, to the interest of no one that litigation should cease, and so the Chancery suit, in
which we are all concerned, is likely to go on for ever."

"But, surely litigation is expensive?" suggested Mr. Punch.

"I should rather think it was," returned the wig-wearer. "The Law is a noble profession, and
it is only right and proper that those who indulge in it should pay for it. In the present
instance our entire estate will be absolutely exhausted."

"But how will you all live?"

"On the costs!" was the reply, as the Inhabitant of Uranus hurried away to attend his appointment.

"Lawyers keeping a suit alive to live upon the costs!" exclaimed Mr. Punch, in tones of pained
astonishment. "I never heard the like!"

And, horrified and sorrowful, he seized Father TIME by the forelock, and once more floated
into space.

       *       *       *       *       *

VISIT TO CASTOR.

Father TIME shivered, and wrapped his ancient cloak more closely about him.

"Come, come," said Mr. Punch, "I understand your disgust. But there is still something left
to us in which we may take pleasure. Upon a neighbouring star the people delight in horses.
All day long they bestride them with a courage never equalled. Swift as the wind are the steeds,
and for mere honour and glory are they matched one against the other, and from all parts of
the star the populace is gathered together in its hundreds of thousands to applaud and to crown
them that ride the victors in the races. Let us fare thither, for the sport is splendid, and
we shall there forget the pain we have suffered here. Indeed, it is but a short flight to Castor."

Thus speaking, he seized the Father by his lock, and floated with him into space. The roar
of the Pollucian streets grew fainter and fainter, the lights twinkled dimly, until at length
they disappeared. Then gradually the land loomed up above them out of a bank of clouds, and
in another moment the wandering pair stood once more on stella firma.

They had alighted on an immense grassy plain, which stretched away in every direction, as far
as the eye could reach. On every side were to be seen men and women and children, mounted on
horses. To their right a band of youths, arrayed in coloured shirts, white linen breeches,
and yellow boots, and wearing little coloured caps, jauntily set upon their heads, were careering
wildly hither and thither on swift and wiry ponies. They were waving in the air long sticks,
fitted with a cross block of wood at the end, and were pursuing a wooden ball. Many were the
collisions, the crashes, and the falls. On every side men and ponies rolled over in the dust;
but they rose, shook themselves as though nothing had happened, and dashed again into the fray.
Father TIME shouted with enthusiasm.

"Yes," said the Sage, "you do well to cheer them. They are gallant youngsters these. The game
they play is 'Polo,' and though the expense be great, the contempt of danger and pain is also
great. They play it well, but I doubt not we could match them at Hurlingham. But see," he added,
"on our left. What rabble is that?" As he spoke a panting deer flew past them hard pressed
by a pack of yelping hounds. Close behind came a mob of riders, two or three of them glittering
in scarlet and gold, the rest in every variety of riding-dress.

"Behold," said the Arch-philosopher, "a Royal Sport. These are the Castorian Buck-hounds; that
elderly gentleman is their master. They pay him £1500 a-year to provide sport for Cockneys.
The sport consists in letting a deer out of a cart and chasing him till he nearly dies of fatigue.
Then they rope him and replace him in the cart. After that they all drain their flasks, and
consider themselves sportsmen. Poor stuff, I think."

"Of course," said the Father, "you have nothing of that sort in England."

Mr. Punch was about to reply when a well-appointed four-in-hand drove up, and a courteous gentleman
who handled the ribbons, offered the two strangers seats.

"I will take you," he remarked, "to our great national race-meeting. I assure you it is well
worth seeing."

The offer was accepted. A pleasant drive brought them to the race-course. To tell the truth
it was much like most other race-courses. A huge crowd was assembled, and the din of roaring
thousands filled the air. As they drove up a race had just started, and it was pretty to see
the flash of the coloured caps and jackets in the sun. The horses came nearer and nearer. As
they rounded the bend which led into the straight run in, the excitement became almost too
great for Father TIME. A torrent of sporting phrases broke from his lips. One after another
he backed every horse on the card for extravagant sums, and the bets were promptly, but methodically
booked by Mr. Punch. A handsome chestnut was leading by two good lengths, and apparently going
strong, but about a hundred yards from the post he suddenly slowed down for some unaccountable
reason. In a moment a bay and a brown flew past him, there was a final roar and the race was
over. The bay had won, the brown was second, and the chestnut a length behind, was only third.
"Most extraordinary thing that," said the Paternal One; "I made sure the chestnut would win."

"That's just it," broke in the owner of the coach; "the public thought so too, and they've
lost their money."

"Just look at the mob," he continued, "crowding round the jockey and the owner. 'Gad, I shouldn't
care to be hooted like that. But, of course, they've made their pile on it; never intended
him to win. Just sent him out for an airing. Pretty bit of roping, wasn't it?" he continued,
addressing Mr. Punch.

But the Sportsman of Sportsmen only frowned.

"In the land we come from," he rejoined, "the sport of racing is pure, and only the most high-minded
men take part in it. Their desire is not to make money, but merely to improve the breed of
British horses. I grieve to find that here the case is otherwise. Reform the Sport, Sir; reform
it, and make it worthy of Castorian gentlemen."

His newly-found friend only smiled.

Then he winked as he hummed to himself the words of a song, which ran something like this:--

  "Come, sportsmen all, give ear to me, I'll tell you what occurred,
    But of course you won't repeat it when I've told you;
  For with honourable gentlemen I hope that mum's the word,
    When a horse you've laid your money on has sold you.
  I presume you lost your shekels, and you think it rather low,
    Since you're none of you as rich as NORTH or BARING.
  But another time you'll get them back by being 'in the know,'
    When a favourite is started for an airing.

"That's an odd sort of song," said Mr. Punch.

"Not so odd as the subject," replied the singer. "But you have only heard the first verse;
wait till you know the second."

  "'But they didn't tell the public; it's a precious, jolly shame;'
    (Such behaviour to the public seems to shock it)--
  Now if you'd been placed behind the scenes you wouldn't think the same,
    But put principles and winnings in your pocket.
  A gent who owns a stable doesn't always think of you,
    And he doesn't seem to fancy profit-sharing.
  And you really shouldn't curse him when he manages a 'do.'
    With a favourite who's only on an airing."

Before the singer could proceed any farther, a frightful hubbub arose. A pale, gasping wretch,
rushed past, pursued by a howling, cursing mob of ruffians. As he fled, he tripped, and fell,
and in a moment they were on the top of him, buffeting, and beating the very life out of him.

"That's murder," said Mr. Punch. "Where are the police?"

And he was on the point of stepping down, to render assistance, when his friend laid a hand
upon his arm.

"Oh, that's only a welsher," he said; "he's bolting with other people's money."

"Is it the owner of the chestnut?" inquired Father TIME.

"Bless your heart, no," was the reply. "It's only a low-class cheat. The owner of the chestnut
is--"

But Mr. Punch had no wish to hear or see more.

He took TIME's arm, and together they floated away into space, to land shortly afterwards in
another sphere.

       *       *       *       *       *

VISIT TO POLLUX.

The street in which they had descended was situated in the heart of a great city. The roar
of traffic sounded in their ears from the larger thoroughfares close by. Most of the houses
were small and mean--a remarkable contrast to one large building, brilliantly lighted, in front
of which a mob was gathered together. A more ruffianly-looking assemblage it would have been
hard to discover. The rest of the street was filled with hansoms, the long line of which was
constantly being augmented by fresh arrivals, whose occupants sprang out and swiftly mounted
a flight of steps leading up to the entrance of the large building mentioned, and passed through
swing-doors of glass, which gave admission to a broad passage. In front of this house the Sage
paused, and addressed his companion.

"Venerable One," he said, for he had become aware of a reluctance on the part of the Lord of
the Hour-Glass, "have no fear. We are now, as you know, in the metropolis of Pollux. This is
the country of the [Greek: pux agathos], the home of the noble boxer; and this," he added,
pointing to the glittering palace, "is the headquarters, I am informed, of the boxer's art.
Let us enter, so that I may show you how the game should really be played. I like not the crowd
without. Within we shall see something very different."

So saying, he linked his arm in that of the Paternal One, and together they ascended the stairs.
At the top stood an official dressed in a dark uniform, his breast adorned with medals.

"I beg your pardon, Gentlemen," said the minion to the pair, "are you Members?"

