consider it as still improper to disclose." has been changed to "which I consider as still
improper to disclose."

Bolded text is marked with =.]

               MY REMINISCENCES OF THE ANGLO-BOER WAR

                                 BY

                         GENERAL BEN VILJOEN

   (ASSISTANT COMMANDANT-GENERAL OF THE TRANSVAAL BURGHER FORCES
      AND MEMBER FOR JOHANNESBURG IN THE TRANSVAAL VOLKSRAAD)

                  Maps from Drawings by P. Van Breda

                               LONDON:
                       HOOD, DOUGLAS, & HOWARD,
                       11, CLIFFORD'S INN, E.C.
                                1902.

PREFACE.

General Ben Viljoen, while engaged on this work, requested me to write a short introduction
to it. This request I gladly comply with.

General Viljoen was a prisoner-of-war at Broadbottom Camp, St. Helena, where, after two years'
service in South Africa, I was stationed with my regiment. It was at the General's further
request that I conveyed this work to Europe for publication.

The qualities which particularly endeared this brave and justly-famous Boer officer to us were
his straightforwardness and unostentatious manner, his truthfulness, and the utter absence
of affectation that distinguishes him. I am certain that he has written his simple narrative
with candour and impartiality, and I feel equally certain, from what I know of him, that this
most popular of our late opponents has reviewed the exciting episodes of the War with an honesty,
an intelligence, and a humour which many previous publications on the War have lacked.

During his stay at St. Helena I became deeply attached to General Viljoen; and in conclusion
I trust that this work, which entailed many hours of labour, will yield him a handsome recompense.

                         THEODORE BRINCKMAN, C.B.
                                 Colonel Commanding,
                          3rd, The Buffs (East Kent Regt.)

  Tarbert,
    Loch Fyne,
      Scotland.
                                       September, 1902

INDEX TO CONTENTS.

                                                         Page
    PREFACE BY COL. THEODORE BRINCKMAN, C.B.                5

    THE AUTHOR TO THE READER                                9

    CHAPTER

          I. THE WAR CLOUDS GATHER                         19

         II. AND THE WAR STORM BREAKS                      24

        III. THE INVASION OF NATAL                         30

         IV. DEFEATED AT ELANDSLAAGTE                      40

          V. PURSUED BY THE LANCERS                        44

         VI. RISKING JOUBERT'S ANGER                       59

        VII. THE BOER GENERAL'S SUPERSTITIONS              68

       VIII. "GREAT POWERS" TO INTERVENE                   72

         IX. COLENSO AND SPION KOP FIGHTS                  78

          X. THE BATTLE OF VAALKRANTZ                      88

         XI. THE TURN OF THE TIDE                         100

        XII. THE GREAT BOER RETREAT                       110

       XIII. DRIVEN FROM THE BIGGARSBERGEN                124

        XIV. DISPIRITED AND DEMORALISED                   133

         XV. OCCUPATION OF PRETORIA                       145

        XVI. BATTLE OF DONKERHOEK ("DIAMOND HILL")        150

       XVII. I BECOME A GENERAL                           161

      XVIII. OUR CAMP BURNED OUT                          175

        XIX. BATTLE OF BERGENDAL (MACHADODORP)            181

         XX. TWO THOUSAND BRITISH PRISONERS RELEASED      185

        XXI. A GOVERNMENT IN FLIGHT                       193

       XXII. AN IGNOMINIOUS DISPERSAL                     204

      XXIII. A DREARY TREK THROUGH FEVERLAND              212

        XIV. PAINS AND PLEASURES OF COMMANDEERING         237

        XXV. PUNISHING THE PRO-BRITISH                    246

       XXVI. BATTLE OF RHENOSTERKOP                       258

      XXVII. THE SECOND CHRISTMAS AT WAR                  278

     XXVIII. CAPTURE OF "LADY ROBERTS"                    285

       XXIX. A DISMAL "HAPPY NEW YEAR"                    302

        XXX. GENERAL ATTACK ON BRITISH FORTS              307

       XXXI. A "BLUFF" AND A BATTLE                       322

      XXXII. EXECUTION OF A TRAITOR                       333

     XXXIII. IN A TIGHT CORNER                            339

      XXXIV. ELUDING THE BRITISH CORDON                   348

       XXXV. BOER GOVERNMENT'S NARROW ESCAPE              358

      XXXVI. A GOVERNMENT ON HORSEBACK                    377

     XXXVII. BLOWING UP AN ARMOURED TRAIN                 382

    XXXVIII. TRAPPING PRO-BRITISH BOERS                   388

      XXXIX. BRUTAL KAFFIRS' MURDER TRAIL                 402

         XL. CAPTURING A FREEBOOTER'S LAIR                411

        XLI. AMBUSHING THE HUSSARS                        416

       XLII. I TALK WITH GENERAL BLOOD                    421

      XLIII. MRS. BOTHA'S BABY AND THE "TOMMY"            425

       XLIV. THE LAST CHRISTMAS OF THE WAR                435

        XLV. MY LAST DAYS ON THE VELDT                    442

       XLVI. I AM AMBUSHED AND CAPTURED                   449

      XLVII. SHIPPED TO ST. HELENA                        462

     XLVIII. LIFE IN BONAPARTE'S PRISON                   471

       XLIX. HOW WE BLEW UP AND CAPTURED TRAINS           485

          L. HOW WE FED AND CLOTHED COMMANDOS             496

         LI. OUR FRIEND THE ENEMY                         506

        LII. THE FIGHTING BOER AND HIS OFFICER            515

             APPENDIX                                     523

THE AUTHOR TO THE READER.

In offering my readers my reminiscences of the late War, I feel that it is necessary to ask
their indulgence and to plead extenuating circumstances for many obvious shortcomings.

It should be pointed out that the preparation of this work was attended with many difficulties
and disabilities, of which the following were only a few:--

     (1) This is my first attempt at writing a book, and as a
     simple Afrikander I lay no claim to any literary ability.

     (2) When captured by the British forces I was deprived of
     all my notes, and have been compelled to consult and depend
     largely upon my memory for my facts and data. I would wish
     to add, however, that the notes and minutiæ they took from
     me referred only to events and incidents covering six months
     of the War. Twice before my capture, various diaries I had
     compiled fell into British hands; and on a third occasion,
     when our camp at Dalmanutha was burned out by a
     "grass-fire," other notes were destroyed.

     (3) I wrote this book while a prisoner-of-war, fettered, as
     it were, by the strong chains with which a British "parole"
     is circumscribed. I was, so to say, bound hand and foot, and
     always made to feel sensibly the humiliating position to
     which we, as prisoners-of-war on this island, were reduced.
     Our unhappy lot was rendered unnecessarily unpleasant by the
     insulting treatment offered us by Colonel Price, who
     appeared to me an excellent prototype of Napoleon's
     custodian, Sir Hudson Lowe. One has only to read Lord
     Rosebery's work, "The Last Phase of Napoleon," to realise
     the insults and indignities Sir Hudson Lowe heaped upon a
     gallant enemy.

We Boers experienced similar treatment from our custodian, Colonel Price, who appeared to be
possessed with the very demon of distrust and who conjured up about us the same fantastic and
mythical plans of escape as Sir Hudson Lowe attributed to Napoleon. It is to his absurd suspicions
about our safe custody that I trace the bitterly offensive regulations enforced on us.

While engaged upon this work, Colonel Price could have pounced down upon me at any moment,
and, having discovered the manuscript, would certainly have promptly pronounced the writing
of it in conflict with the terms of my "parole."

I have striven as far as possible to refrain from criticism, except when compelled to do so,
and to give a coherent story, so that the reader may easily follow the episodes I have sketched.
I have also endeavoured to be impartial, or, at least, so impartial as an erring human being
can be who has just quitted the bloody battlefields of a bitter struggle.

But the sword is still wet, and the wound is not yet healed.

I would assure my readers that it has not been without hesitation that I launch this work upon
the world. There have been many amateur and professional writers who have preceded me in overloading
the reading public with what purport to be "true histories" of the War. But having been approached
by friends to add my little effort to the ponderous tomes of War literature, I have written
down that which I saw with my own eyes, and that which I personally experienced. If seeing
is believing, the reader may lend credence to my recital of every incident I have herein recounted.

During the last stages of the struggle, when we were isolated from the outside world, we read
in newspapers and other printed matter captured from the British so many romantic and fabulous
stories about ourselves, that we were sometimes in doubt whether people in Europe and elsewhere
would really believe that we were ordinary human beings and not legendary monsters. On these
occasions I read circumstantial reports of my death, and once a long, and by no means flattering,
obituary (extending over several columns of a newspaper) in which I was compared to Garibaldi,
"Jack the Ripper," and Aguinaldo. On another occasion I learned from British newspapers of
my capture, conviction, and execution in the Cape Colony for wearing the insignia of the Red
Cross. I read that I had been brought before a military court at De Aar and sentenced to be
shot, and what was worse, the sentence was duly confirmed and carried out. A very lurid picture
was drawn of the execution. Bound to a chair, and placed near my open grave, I had met my doom
with "rare stoicism and fortitude." "At last," concluded my amiable biographer, "this scoundrel,
robber, and guerilla leader, Viljoen, has been safely removed, and will trouble the British
Army no longer." I also learned with mingled feelings of amazement and pride that, being imprisoned
at Mafeking at the commencement of hostilities, General Baden-Powell had kindly exchanged me
for Lady Sarah Wilson.

To be honest, none of the above-mentioned reports were strictly accurate. I can assure the
reader that I was never killed in action or executed at De Aar, I was never in Mafeking or
any other prison in my life (save here at St. Helena), nor was I in the Cape Colony during
the War. I never masqueraded with a Red Cross, and I was never exchanged for Lady Sarah Wilson.
Her ladyship's friends would have found me a very poor exchange.

It is also quite inaccurate and unfair to describe me as a "thief" and "a scoundrel". It was,
indeed, not an heroic thing to do, seeing that the chivalrous gentlemen of the South African
Press who employed the epithets were safely beyond my view and reach, and I had no chance of
correcting their quite erroneous impressions. I could neither refute nor defend myself against
their infamous libels, and for the rest, my friend "Mr. Atkins" kept us all exceedingly busy.

That which is left of Ben Viljoen after the several "coups de grace" in the field and the tragic
execution at De Aar, still "pans" out at a fairly robust young person--quite an ordinary young
fellow, indeed, thirty-four years of age, of middle height and build. Somewhere in the Marais
Quartier of Paris--where the French Huguenots came from--there was an ancestral Viljoen from
whom I am descended. In the War just concluded I played no great part of my own seeking. I
met many compatriots who were better soldiers than myself; but on occasions I was happily of
some small service to my Cause and to my people.

The chapters I append are, like myself, simple in form. If I have become notorious it is not
my fault; it is the fault of the newspaper paragraphist, the snap-shooter, and the autograph
fiend; and in these pages I have endeavoured, as far as possible, to leave the stage to more
prominent actors, merely offering myself as guide to the many battlefields on which we have
waged our unhappy struggle.

I shall not disappoint the reader by promising him sensational or thrilling episodes. He will
find none such in these pages; he will find only a naked and unembellished story.

                         BEN J. VILJOEN.
                    (Assistant Commandant-General
                      of the Republican Forces.)

  St. Helena,
                                   June, 1902

MY REMINISCENCES

OF THE

ANGLO-BOER WAR

CHAPTER I.

THE WAR CLOUDS GATHER.

In 1895 the political clouds gathered thickly and grew threatening. They were unmistakable
in their portent. War was meant, and we heard the martial thunder rumbling over our heads.

The storm broke in the shape of an invasion from Rhodesia on our Western frontiers, a raid
planned by soldiers of a friendly power.

However one may endeavour to argue the chief cause of the South African war to other issues,
it remains an irrebuttable fact that the Jameson Raid was primarily responsible for the hostilities
which eventually took place between Great Britain and the Boer Republics.

Mr. Rhodes, the sponsor and deus ex machinâ of the Raid, could not agree with Mr. Paul Kruger,
and had failed in his efforts to establish friendly relations with him. Mr. Kruger, quite as
stubborn and ambitious as Mr. Rhodes, placed no faith in the latter's amiable proposals, and
the result was that fierce hatred was engendered between the two Gideons, a racial rancour
spreading to fanatical lengths.

Dr. Jameson's stupid raid is now a matter of history; but from that fateful New Year's Day
of 1896 we Boers date the terrible trials and sufferings to which our poor country has been
exposed. To that mischievous incident, indeed, we directly trace the struggle now terminated.

This invasion, which was synchronous with an armed rebellion at Johannesburg, was followed
by the arrest and imprisonment of the so-called gold magnates of the Witwatersrand. Whether
these exceedingly wealthy but extremely degenerate sons of Albion and Germania deserved the
death sentence pronounced upon their leaders at Pretoria for high treason it is not for me
to judge.

I do recall, however, what an appeal for mercy there went up, how piteously the Transvaal Government
was petitioned and supplicated, and finally moved "to forgive and forget." The same faction
who now press so obdurately for "no mercy" upon the Colonial Afrikanders who joined us, then
supplicated all the Boer gods for forgiveness.

Meantime the Republic was plagued by the rinderpest scourge, which wrought untold havoc throughout
the country. This scourge was preceded by the dynamite disaster at Vrededorp (near Johannesburg)
and the railway disaster at Glencoe in Natal. It was succeeded by a smallpox epidemic, which,
in spite of medical efforts, grew from sporadic to epidemic and visited all classes of the
Rand, exacting victims wherever it travelled. During the same period difficulties occurred
in Swaziland necessitating the despatch of a strong commando to the disaffected district and
the maintenance of a garrison at Bremersdorp. The following year hostilities were commenced
against the Magato tribe in the north of the Republic.

After an expensive expedition, lasting six months, the rebellion was quelled. There was little
doubt that the administration of unfaithful native commissioners was in part responsible for
the difficulties, but there is less doubt that external influences also contributed to the
rebellion. This is not the time, however, to tear open old wounds.

Mr. Rhodes has disappeared from the stage for ever; he died as he had lived. His relentless
enemy Mr. Kruger, who was pulling the strings at the other end, is still alive. Perhaps the
old man may be spared to see the end of the bloody drama; it was undoubtedly he and Mr. Rhodes
who played the leading parts in the prologue.

Which of these two "Big Men" took the greatest share in bringing about the Disaster which has
drenched South Africa with blood and draped it in mourning, it would be improper for me at
this period to suggest. Mr. Rhodes has been summoned before a Higher Tribunal; Mr. Kruger has
still to come up for judgment before the people whose fate, and very existence as a nation,
are, at the time of writing, wavering in the balance.

We have been at one another's throats, and for this we have to thank our "statesmen." It is
to be hoped that our leaders of the future will attach more value to human lives, and that
Boer and Briton will be enabled to live amicably side by side.

A calm and statesmanlike government by men free from ambition and racial rancour, by men of
unblemished reputation, will be the only means of pacifying South Africa and keeping South
Africa pacified.

CHAPTER II.

AND THE WAR STORM BREAKS.

It was during a desultory discussion of an ordinary sessions of the Second Volksraad, in which
I represented Johannesburg, that one day in September, 1899--to be precise, the afternoon of
the 28th--the messenger of the House came to me with a note, and whispered, "A message from
General Joubert, Sir; it is urgent, and the General says it requires your immediate attention."

I broke the seal of the envelope with some trepidation. I guessed its contents, and a few of
my colleagues in the Chamber hung over me almost speechless with excitement, whispering curiously,
"Jong, is dit fout?"--"Is this correct. Is it war?"

Everybody knew, of course, that we were in for a supreme crisis, that the relations between
Great Britain and our Republic were strained to the bursting point, that bitter diplomatic
notes had been exchanged between the governments of the two countries for months past, and
that a collision, an armed collision, was sooner or later inevitable.

Being "Fighting-Commandant" of the Witwatersrand goldfields, and, therefore, an officer of
the Transvaal army, my movements on that day excited great interest among my colleagues in
the Chamber. After reading General Joubert's note I said, as calmly as possible: "Yes, the
die is cast; I am leaving for the Natal frontier. Good-bye. I must now quit the house. Who
knows, perhaps for ever!"

General Joubert's mandate was couched as follows:--

     "You are hereby ordered to proceed with the Johannesburg
     commando to Volksrust to-morrow, Friday evening, at 8
     o'clock. Your field cornets have already received
     instructions to commandeer the required number of burghers
     and the necessary horses, waggons, and equipment.
     Instructions have also been given for the necessary railway
     conveyances to be held ready. Further instructions will
     reach you."

Previous to my departure next morning I made a hurried call at Commandant-General Joubert's
offices. The ante-chamber leading to the Generalissimo's "sanctum-sanctorum" was crowded with
brilliantly-uniformed officers of our State Artillery, and it was only by dint of using my
elbows very vigorously that I gained admission to my chief-in-command.

The old General seemed to feel keenly the gravity of the situation. He looked careworn and
troubled: "Good-morning, Commandant," he said; "aren't you away yet?"

I explained that I was on my way to the railway station, but I thought before I left I'd like
to see him about one or two things.

"Well, go on, what is it?" General Joubert enquired, petulantly.

"I want to know, General Joubert," I said, "whether England has declared war against us, or
whether we are taking the lead. And another thing, what sort of general have I to report myself
to at Volksrust?"

The old warrior, without looking up or immediately answering me, drew various cryptic and hieroglyphic
pothooks and figures on the paper before him. Then he suddenly lifted his eyes and pierced
me with a look, at which I quailed and trembled.

He said very slowly: "Look here; there is as yet no declaration of war, and hostilities have
not yet commenced. You and my other officers should understand that very clearly, because possibly
the differences between ourselves and Great Britain may still be settled. We are only going
to occupy our frontiers because England's attitude is extremely provocative, and if England
see that we are fully prepared and that we do not fear her threats, she will perhaps be wise
in time and reconsider the situation. We also want to place ourselves in a position to prevent
and quell a repetition of the Jameson Raid with more force than we exerted in 1896."

An hour afterwards I was on board a train travelling to Johannesburg in the company of General
Piet Cronje and his faithful wife. General Cronje told me that he was proceeding to the western
districts of the Republic to take up the command of the Potchefstroom and Lichtenburg burghers.
His instructions, he said, were to protect the Western frontier.

I left General Cronje at Johannesburg on the 29th September, 1899, and never saw him again
until I met him at St. Helena nearly two and a half years afterwards, on the 25th March, 1902.
When I last saw him we greeted each other as free men, as free and independent legislators
and officers of a free Republic. We fought for our rights to live as a nation.

Now I meet the veteran Cronje a broken old man, captive like myself, far away from our homes
and our country.

Then and Now!

Then we went abroad free and freedom-loving men, burning with patriotism. Our wives and our
women-folk watched us go; full of sorrow and anxiety, but satisfied that we were going abroad
in our country's cause.

And Now!

Two promising and prosperous Republics wrecked, their fair homesteads destroyed, their people
in mourning, and thousands of innocent women and children the victims of a cruel war.

There is scarcely an Afrikander family without an unhealable wound. Everywhere the traces of
the bloody struggle; and, alas, most poignant and distressing fact of all, burghers who fought
side by side with us in the earlier stages of the struggle are now to be found in the ranks
of the enemy.

These wretched men, ignoring their solemn duty, left their companions in the lurch without
sense of shame or respect for the braves who fell fighting for their land and people.

Oh, day of judgment! The Afrikander nation will yet avenge your treachery.

CHAPTER III.

THE INVASION OF NATAL.

After taking leave of my friend Cronje at Johannesburg Station, my first duty was to visit
my various field cornets. About four o'clock that afternoon I found my commando was as nearly
ready as could be expected. When I say ready, I mean ready on paper only, as later experience
showed. My three field cornets were required to equip 900 mounted men with waggons and provisions,
and of course they had carte blanche to commandeer. Only fully enfranchised burghers of the
South African Republic were liable to be commandeered, and in Johannesburg town there was an
extraordinary conglomeration of cosmopolitans amenable to this gentle process of enlistment.

It would take up too much time to adequately describe the excitement of Johannesburg on this
memorable day. Thousands of Uitlanders were flying from their homes, contenting themselves,
in their hurry to get away, to stand in Kaffir or coal trucks and to expose themselves cheerfully
to the fierce sun, and other elements. The streets were palpitating with burghers ready to
proceed to the frontier that night, and with refugees speeding to the stations. Everybody was
in a state of intense feeling. One was half-hearted, another cheerful, and a third thirsting
for blood, while many of my men were under the influence of alcohol.

When it was known that I had arrived in the town my room in the North Western Hotel was besieged.
I was approached by all sorts of people pleading exemption from commando duty. One Boer said
he knew that his solemn duty was to fight for his country and his freedom, but he would rather
decline. Another declared that he could not desert his family; while yet another came forward
with a story that of his four horses, three had been commandeered, and that these horses were
his only means of subsistence. A fourth complained that his waggons and mules had been clandestinely
(although officially) removed. Many malingerers suddenly discovered acute symptoms of heart
disease and brought easily-obtained doctor's certificates, assuring me that tragic consequences
would attend their exposure in the field. Ladies came to me pleading exemption for their husbands,
sisters for brothers, mothers for sons, all offering plausible reasons why their loved ones
should be exempted from commando duty. It was very difficult to deal with all these clamorous
visitors. I was much in the position of King Solomon, though lacking his wisdom. But I would
venture to say that his ancient majesty himself would have been perplexed had he been in my
place. It is necessary that the reader should know that the main part of the population was
composed of all nationalities and lacked every element of Boer discipline.

On the evening of the 29th of September, I left with the Johannesburg commando in two trains.
Two-thirds of my men had no personal acquaintance with me, and at the departure there was some
difficulty because of this. One burgher came into my private compartment uninvited. He evidently
forgot his proper place, and when I suggested to him that the compartment was private and reserved
for officers, he told me to go to the devil, and I was compelled to remove him somewhat precipitately
from the carriage. This same man was afterwards one of my most trustworthy scouts.

The following afternoon we reached Standerton, where I received telegraphic instructions from
General Joubert to join my commando to that of Captain Schiel, who was in charge of the German
Corps, and to place myself under the supreme command of Jan Kock, a member of the Executive
Council, who had been appointed a general by the Government.

We soon discovered that quite one-third of the horses we had taken with us were untrained for
the serious business of fighting, and also that many of the new burghers of foreign nationality
had not the slightest idea how to ride. Our first parade, or "Wapenschouwing" gave food for
much hilarity. Here one saw horses waltzing and jumping, while over there a rider was biting
the sand, and towards evening the doctors had several patients. It may be stated that although
not perfectly equipped in the matter of ambulances, we had three physicians with us, Doctors
Visser, Marais, and Shaw. Our spiritual welfare was being looked after by the Reverends Nel
and Martins, but not for long, as both these gentlemen quickly found that commando life was
unpleasant and left us spiritually to ourselves, even as the European Powers left us politically.
But I venture to state that no member of my commando really felt acutely the loss of the theological
gentlemen who primarily accompanied us.

On the following day General Kock and a large staff arrived at the laager, and, together with
the German Corps, we trekked to Paardekop and Klip River, in the Orange Free State, where we
were to occupy Botha's Pass. My convoy comprised about a hundred carts, mostly drawn by mules,
and it was amusing to see the variety of provisions my worthy field-cornets had gathered together.
There were three full waggons of lime-juice and other unnecessary articles which I caused to
be unloaded at the first halting-place to make room for more serviceable provisions. It should
be mentioned that of my three field-cornets only one, the late Piet Joubert of Jeppestown,
actually accompanied my commando. The others sent substitutes, perhaps because they did not
like to expose themselves to the change of air. We rested some days at the Klip River, in the
Orange Free State, and from thence I was sent with a small escort of burghers by our General
to Harrismith to meet a number of Free State officers. After travelling two days I came upon
Chief Free State Commandant Prinsloo, who afterwards deserted, and other officers. The object
of my mission was to organise communications with these officers. On the 11th of October, having
returned to my commando, we received a report that our Government had despatched the Ultimatum
to England, and that the time specified for the reply to that document had elapsed. Hostilities
had begun.

We received orders to invade Natal, and crossed the frontier that very evening. I, with a patrol
of 50 men, had not crossed the frontier very far when one of my scouts rode up with the report
that a large British force was in sight on the other side of the River Ingogo. I said to myself
at the time: "If this be true the British have rushed up fairly quickly, and the fat will be
in the fire very soon."

We then broke into scattered formation and carefully proceeded into Natal. After much reconnoitring
and concealment, however, we soon discovered that the "large English force" was only a herd
of cattle belonging to friendly Boers, and that the camp consisted of two tents occupied by
some Englishmen and Kaffirs who were mending a defective bridge. We also came across a cart
drawn by four bullocks belonging to a Natal farmer, and I believe this was the first plunder
we captured in Natal. The Englishman, who said he knew nothing about any war, received a pass
to proceed with his servants to the English lines, and he left with the admonition to in future
read the newspapers and learn when war was imminent. Next day our entire commando was well
into Natal. The continuous rain and cold of the Drakenbergen rendered our first experience
of veldt life, if not unbearable, very discouraging. We numbered a fairly large commando, as
Commandant J. Lombard, commanding the Hollander corps, had also joined us. Close by Newcastle
we encountered a large number of commandos, and a general council of war was held under the
presidency of Commandant General Joubert. It was here decided that Generals Lukas Meyer and
Dijl Erasmus should take Dundee, which an English garrison held, while our commandos under
General Kock were instructed to occupy the Biggarburg Pass. Preceded by scouts we wound our
way in that direction, leaving all our unnecessary baggage in the shape of provisions and ammunition
waggons at Newcastle.

One of my acting field-cornets and the field-cornets of the German commando, prompted by goodness
knows what, pressed forward south, actually reaching the railway station at Elandslaagte. A
goods train was just steaming into the station, and it was captured by these foolhardy young
Moltkes. I was much dissatisfied with this action, and sent a messenger ordering them to retire
after having destroyed the railway. On the same night I received instructions from General
Kock to proceed with two hundred men and a cannon to Elandslaagte, and I also learned that
Captain Schiel and his German Corps had left in the same direction.

Imagine, we had gone further than had actually been decided at the council of war, and we pressed
forward still further without any attempt being made to keep in touch with the other commandos
on our left and right. Seeing the inexpediency of this move, I went to the General in command
and expressed my objections to it. But General Kock was firmly decided on the point, and said,
"Go along, my boy." We reached Elandslaagte at midnight; it was raining very heavily. After
scrambling for positions in the darkness, although I had already sufficiently seen that the
lie of the land suggested no strategic operations, we retired to rest. Two days later occurred
the fateful battle.

CHAPTER IV.

DEFEATED AT ELANDSLAAGTE.

In the grey dawn of the 21st of October a number of scouts I had despatched overnight in the
direction of Ladysmith returned with the tidings that "the khakis were coming." "Where are
they, and how many are there of them?" I asked. "Commandant," the chief scout replied, "I don't
know much about these things, but I should think that the English number quite a thousand mounted
men, and they have guns, and they have already passed Modderspruit." To us amateur soldiers
this report was by no means reassuring, and I confess I hoped fervently that the English might
stay away for some little time longer.

It was at sunrise that the first shot I heard in this war was fired. Presently the men we dreaded
were visible on the ridges of hills south of the little red railway station at Elandslaagte.
Some of my men hailed the coming fight with delight; others, more experienced in the art of
war, turned deadly pale. That is how the Boers felt in their first battle. The awkward way
in which many of my men sought cover, demonstrated at once how inexperienced in warfare we
youngsters were. We started with our guns and tried a little experimental shooting. The second
and third shots appeared to be effective; at any rate, as far as we could judge, they seemed
to disturb the equanimity of the advancing troops. I saw an ammunition cart deprived of its
team and generally smashed.

The British guns appeared to be of very small calibre indeed. Certainly they failed to reach
us, and all the harm they did was to send a shell through a Boer ambulance within the range
of fire. This shot was, I afterwards ascertained, purely accidental. When the British found
that we too, strange to say, had guns, and, what is more, knew how to use them, they retired
towards Ladysmith. But this was merely a ruse; they had gone back to fetch more. Still, though
it was a ruse, we were cleverly deceived by it, and while we were off-saddling and preparing
the mid-day meal they were arranging a new and more formidable attack. From the Modderspruit
siding they were pouring troops brought down by rail, and although we had a splendid chance
of shelling the newcomers from the high kopje we occupied, General Kock, who was in supreme
command of our corps, for some reason which has never been explained, refused to permit us
to fire upon them. I went to General Kock and pleaded with him, but he was adamant. This was
a bitter disappointment to me, but I consoled myself with the thought that the General was
much older than myself, and had been fighting since he was a baby. I therefore presumed he
knew better. Possibly if we younger commanders had had more authority in the earlier stages
of the war, and had had less to deal with arrogant and stupid old men, we should have reached
Durban and Cape Town.

I must here again confess that none of my men displayed any of the martial determination with
which they had so buoyantly proceeded from Johannesburg. To put it bluntly, some of them were
"footing" it and the English cavalry, taking advantage of this, were rapidly outflanking them.
The British tactics were plain enough. General French had placed his infantry in the centre
with three field batteries (fifteen pounders), while his cavalry, with Maxims, encompassed
our right and left. He was forming a crescent, with the obvious purpose of turning our position
with his right and left wing. When charging at the close of the attack the cavalry, which consisted
mainly of lancers, were on both our flanks, and completely prevented our retreat. It was not
easy to estimate the number of our assailant's forces. Judging roughly, I calculated they numbered
between 5,000 and 6,000, while we were 800 all told, and our artillery consisted merely of
two Nordenfeldt guns with shell, and no grape shot.

The British certainly meant business that day. It was the baptismal fire of the Imperial Light
Horse, a corps principally composed of Johannesburgers, who were politically and racially our
bitter enemies. And what was more unfortunate, our guns were so much exposed that they were
soon silenced. For a long time we did our best to keep our opponents at bay, but they came
in crushing numbers, and speedily dead and maimed burghers covered the veldt. Then the Gordon
Highlanders and the other infantry detachments commenced to storm our positions. We got them
well within the range of our rifle fire, and made our presence felt; but they kept pushing
on with splendid determination and indomitable pluck, though their ranks were being decimated
before our very eyes.

This was the first, as it was the last time in the War that I heard a British band playing
to cheer attacking "Tommies." I believe it used to be a British war custom to rouse martial
instincts with lively music, but something must have gone wrong with the works in this War,
there must have occurred a rift in the lute, for ever after this first battle of Elandslaagte
the British abandoned flags, banners, and bands and other quite unnecessary furniture.

About half an hour before sunset, the enemy had come up close to our positions and on all sides
a terrible battle raged. To keep them back was now completely out of the question. They had
forced their way between a kloof, and while rushing up with my men towards them, my rifle was
smashed by a bullet. A wounded burgher handed me his and I joined Field-Cornet Peter Joubert
who, with seven other burghers, was defending the kloof. We poured a heavy fire into the British,
but they were not to be shaken off. Again and again they rushed up in irresistible strength,
gallantly encouraged by their brave officers. Poor Field-Cornet Joubert perished at this point.

When the sun had set and the awful scene was enveloped in darkness there was a dreadful spectacle
of maimed Germans, Hollanders, Frenchmen, Irishmen, Americans, and Boers lying on the veldt.
The groans of the wounded were heartrending; the dead could no longer speak. Another charge,
and the British, encouraged by their success, had taken our last position, guns and all. My
only resource now was to flee, and the battle of Elandslaagte was a thing of the past.

CHAPTER V.

PURSUED BY THE LANCERS.

