The church at Creil was a nondescript place in the inside, splashed with gaudy lights from
the windows, and picked out with medallions of the Dolorous Way.  But there was one oddity,
in the way of an ex voto, which pleased me hugely:  a faithful model of a canal boat, swung
from the vault, with a written aspiration that God should conduct the Saint Nicolas of Creil
to a good haven.  The thing was neatly executed, and would have made the delight of a party
of boys on the waterside.  But what tickled me was the gravity of the peril to be conjured.
You might hang up the model of a sea-going ship, and welcome:  one that is to plough a furrow
round the world, and visit the tropic or the frosty poles, runs dangers that are well worth
a candle and a mass.  But the Saint Nicolas of Creil, which was to be tugged for some ten years
by patient draught-horses, in a weedy canal, with the poplars chattering overhead, and the
skipper whistling at the tiller; which was to do all its errands in green inland places, and
never get out of sight of a village belfry in all its cruising; why, you would have thought
if anything could be done without the intervention of Providence, it would be that!  But perhaps
the skipper was a humorist:  or perhaps a prophet, reminding people of the seriousness of life
by this preposterous token.

At Creil, as at Noyon, Saint Joseph seemed a favourite saint on the score of punctuality. 
Day and hour can be specified; and grateful people do not fail to specify them on a votive
tablet, when prayers have been punctually and neatly answered.  Whenever time is a consideration,
Saint Joseph is the proper intermediary.  I took a sort of pleasure in observing the vogue
he had in France, for the good man plays a very small part in my religion at home.  Yet I could
not help fearing that, where the Saint is so much commanded for exactitude, he will be expected
to be very grateful for his tablet.

This is foolishness to us Protestants; and not of great importance anyway.

But there was something worse than foolishness placarded in Creil Church.  The Association
of the Living Rosary (of which I had never previously heard) is responsible for that.  This
Association was founded, according to the printed advertisement, by a brief of Pope Gregory
Sixteenth, on the 17th of January 1832:  according to a coloured bas-relief, it seems to have
been founded, sometime other, by the Virgin giving one rosary to Saint Dominic, and the Infant
Saviour giving another to Saint Catharine of Siena.  Pope Gregory is not so imposing, but he
is nearer hand.  I could not distinctly make out whether the Association was entirely devotional,
or had an eye to good works; at least it is highly organised:  the names of fourteen matrons
and misses were filled in for each week of the month as associates, with one other, generally
a married woman, at the top for zelatrice:  the leader of the band.  Indulgences, plenary and
partial, follow on the performance of the duties of the Association.  'The partial indulgences
are attached to the recitation of the rosary.'  On 'the recitation of the required dizaine,'
a partial indulgence promptly follows.  When people serve the kingdom of heaven with a pass-book
in their hands, I should always be afraid lest they should carry the same commercial spirit
into their dealings with their fellow-men, which would make a sad and sordid business of this life.

There is one more article, however, of happier import.  'All these indulgences,' it appeared,
'are applicable to souls in purgatory.' For God's sake, ye ladies of Creil, apply them all
to the souls in purgatory without delay!  Burns would take no hire for his last songs, preferring
to serve his country out of unmixed love. Suppose you were to imitate the exciseman, mesdames,
and even if the souls in purgatory were not greatly bettered, some souls in Creil upon the
Oise would find themselves none the worse either here or hereafter.

I cannot help wondering, as I transcribe these notes, whether a Protestant born and bred is
in a fit state to understand these signs, and do them what justice they deserve; and I cannot
help answering that he is not.  They cannot look so merely ugly and mean to the faithful as
they do to me.  I see that as clearly as a proposition in Euclid.  For these believers are
neither weak nor wicked.  They can put up their tablet commanding Saint Joseph for his despatch,
as if he were still a village carpenter; they can 'recite the required dizaine,' and metaphorically
pocket the indulgence, as if they had done a job for Heaven; and then they can go out and look
down unabashed upon this wonderful river flowing by, and up without confusion at the pin-point
stars, which are themselves great worlds full of flowing rivers greater than the Oise.  I see
it as plainly, I say, as a proposition in Euclid, that my Protestant mind has missed the point,
and that there goes with these deformities some higher and more religious spirit than I dream.

I wonder if other people would make the same allowances for me! Like the ladies of Creil, having
recited my rosary of toleration, I look for my indulgence on the spot.

PRECY AND THE MARIONNETTES

We made Precy about sundown.  The plain is rich with tufts of poplar.  In a wide, luminous
curve, the Oise lay under the hillside.  A faint mist began to rise and confound the different
distances together.  There was not a sound audible but that of the sheep-bells in some meadows
by the river, and the creaking of a cart down the long road that descends the hill.  The villas
in their gardens, the shops along the street, all seemed to have been deserted the day before;
and I felt inclined to walk discreetly as one feels in a silent forest.  All of a sudden, we
came round a corner, and there, in a little green round the church, was a bevy of girls in
Parisian costumes playing croquet.  Their laughter, and the hollow sound of ball and mallet,
made a cheery stir in the neighbourhood; and the look of these slim figures, all corseted and
ribboned, produced an answerable disturbance in our hearts.  We were within sniff of Paris,
it seemed.  And here were females of our own species playing croquet, just as if Precy had
been a place in real life, instead of a stage in the fairyland of travel.  For, to be frank,
the peasant woman is scarcely to be counted as a woman at all, and after having passed by such
a succession of people in petticoats digging and hoeing and making dinner, this company of
coquettes under arms made quite a surprising feature in the landscape, and convinced us at
once of being fallible males.

The inn at Precy is the worst inn in France.  Not even in Scotland have I found worse fare.
It was kept by a brother and sister, neither of whom was out of their teens.  The sister, so
to speak, prepared a meal for us; and the brother, who had been tippling, came in and brought
with him a tipsy butcher, to entertain us as we ate.  We found pieces of loo-warm pork among
the salad, and pieces of unknown yielding substance in the ragout.  The butcher entertained
us with pictures of Parisian life, with which he professed himself well acquainted; the brother
sitting the while on the edge of the billiard-table, toppling precariously, and sucking the
stump of a cigar.  In the midst of these diversions, bang went a drum past the house, and a
hoarse voice began issuing a proclamation.  It was a man with marionnettes announcing a performance
for that evening.

He had set up his caravan and lighted his candles on another part of the girls' croquet-green,
under one of those open sheds which are so common in France to shelter markets; and he and
his wife, by the time we strolled up there, were trying to keep order with the audience.

It was the most absurd contention.  The show-people had set out a certain number of benches;
and all who sat upon them were to pay a couple of sous for the accommodation.  They were always
quite full- -a bumper house--as long as nothing was going forward; but let the show-woman appear
with an eye to a collection, and at the first rattle of her tambourine the audience slipped
off the seats, and stood round on the outside with their hands in their pockets.  It certainly
would have tried an angel's temper.  The showman roared from the proscenium; he had been all
over France, and nowhere, nowhere, 'not even on the borders of Germany,' had he met with such
misconduct.  Such thieves and rogues and rascals, as he called them!  And every now and again,
the wife issued on another round, and added her shrill quota to the tirade.  I remarked here,
as elsewhere, how far more copious is the female mind in the material of insult.  The audience
laughed in high good-humour over the man's declamations; but they bridled and cried aloud under
the woman's pungent sallies.  She picked out the sore points.  She had the honour of the village
at her mercy.  Voices answered her angrily out of the crowd, and received a smarting retort
for their trouble. A couple of old ladies beside me, who had duly paid for their seats, waxed
very red and indignant, and discoursed to each other audibly about the impudence of these mountebanks;
but as soon as the show-woman caught a whisper of this, she was down upon them with a swoop:
if mesdames could persuade their neighbours to act with common honesty, the mountebanks, she
assured them, would be polite enough:  mesdames had probably had their bowl of soup, and perhaps
a glass of wine that evening; the mountebanks also had a taste for soup, and did not choose
to have their little earnings stolen from them before their eyes.  Once, things came as far
as a brief personal encounter between the showman and some lads, in which the former went down
as readily as one of his own marionnettes to a peal of jeering laughter.

I was a good deal astonished at this scene, because I am pretty well acquainted with the ways
of French strollers, more or less artistic; and have always found them singularly pleasing.
Any stroller must be dear to the right-thinking heart; if it were only as a living protest
against offices and the mercantile spirit, and as something to remind us that life is not by
necessity the kind of thing we generally make it.  Even a German band, if you see it leaving
town in the early morning for a campaign in country places, among trees and meadows, has a
romantic flavour for the imagination.

An Englishman has always special facilities for intercourse with French gymnasts; for England
is the natural home of gymnasts.  This or that fellow, in his tights and spangles, is sure
to know a word or two of English, to have drunk English aff-'n-aff, and perhaps performed in
an English music-hall.  He is a countryman of mine by profession.  He leaps, like the Belgian
boating men, to the notion that I must be an athlete myself.

To be even one of the outskirters of art, leaves a fine stamp on a man's countenance.  I remember
once dining with a party in the inn at Chateau Landon.  Most of them were unmistakable bagmen;
others well-to-do peasantry; but there was one young fellow in a blouse, whose face stood out
from among the rest surprisingly.  It looked more finished; more of the spirit looked out through
it; it had a living, expressive air, and you could see that his eyes took things in.  My companion
and I wondered greatly who and what he could be. It was fair-time in Chateau Landon, and when
we went along to the booths, we had our question answered; for there was our friend busily
fiddling for the peasants to caper to.  He was a wandering violinist.

A troop of strollers once came to the inn where I was staying, in the department of Seine et
Marne.  There was a father and mother; two daughters, brazen, blowsy hussies, who sang and
acted, without an idea of how to set about either; and a dark young man, like a tutor, a recalcitrant
house-painter, who sang and acted not amiss. The mother was the genius of the party, so far
as genius can be spoken of with regard to such a pack of incompetent humbugs; and her husband
could not find words to express his admiration for her comic countryman.  'You should see my
old woman,' said he, and nodded his beery countenance.  One night they performed in the stable-yard,
with flaring lamps--a wretched exhibition, coldly looked upon by a village audience.  Next
night, as soon as the lamps were lighted, there came a plump of rain, and they had to sweep
away their baggage as fast as possible, and make off to the barn where they harboured, cold,
wet, and supperless.  In the morning, a dear friend of mine, who has as warm a heart for strollers
as I have myself, made a little collection, and sent it by my hands to comfort them for their
disappointment.  I gave it to the father; he thanked me cordially, and we drank a cup together
in the kitchen, talking of roads, and audiences, and hard times.

But the man after my own heart is M. de Vauversin.  It is nearly two years since I saw him
first, and indeed I hope I may see him often again.  Here is his first programme, as I found
it on the breakfast-table, and have kept it ever since as a relic of bright days:

'Mesdames et Messieurs,

'Mademoiselle Ferrario et M. de Vauversin auront l'honneur de chanter ce soir les morceaux
suivants.

'Madermoiselle Ferrario chantera--Mignon--Oiseaux Legers--France-- Des Francais dorment la--Le
chateau bleu--Ou voulez-vous aller?

'M. de Vauversin--Madame Fontaine et M. Robinet--Les plongeurs a cheval--Le Mari mecontent--Tais-toi,
gamin--Mon voisin l'original-- Heureux comme ca--Comme on est trompe.'

They made a stage at one end of the salle-a-manger.  And what a sight it was to see M. de Vauversin,
with a cigarette in his mouth, twanging a guitar, and following Mademoiselle Ferrario's eyes
with the obedient, kindly look of a dog!  The entertainment wound up with a tombola, or auction
of lottery tickets:  an admirable amusement, with all the excitement of gambling, and no hope
of gain to make you ashamed of your eagerness; for there, all is loss; you make haste to be
out of pocket; it is a competition who shall lose most money for the benefit of M. de Vauversin
and Mademoiselle Ferrario.

M. de Vauversin is a small man, with a great head of black hair, a vivacious and engaging air,
and a smile that would be delightful if he had better teeth.  He was once an actor in the Chatelet;
but he contracted a nervous affection from the heat and glare of the footlights, which unfitted
him for the stage.  At this crisis Mademoiselle Ferrario, otherwise Mademoiselle Rita of the
Alcazar, agreed to share his wandering fortunes.  'I could never forget the generosity of that
lady,' said he.  He wears trousers so tight that it has long been a problem to all who knew
him how he manages to get in and out of them.  He sketches a little in water-colours; he writes
verses; he is the most patient of fishermen, and spent long days at the bottom of the inn-garden
fruitlessly dabbling a line in the clear river.

You should hear him recounting his experiences over a bottle of wine; such a pleasant vein
of talk as he has, with a ready smile at his own mishaps, and every now and then a sudden gravity,
like a man who should hear the surf roar while he was telling the perils of the deep.  For
it was no longer ago than last night, perhaps, that the receipts only amounted to a franc and
a half, to cover three francs of railway fare and two of board and lodging.  The Maire, a man
worth a million of money, sat in the front seat, repeatedly applauding Mlle. Ferrario, and
yet gave no more than three sous the whole evening.  Local authorities look with such an evil
eye upon the strolling artist.  Alas! I know it well, who have been myself taken for one, and
pitilessly incarcerated on the strength of the misapprehension.  Once, M. de Vauversin visited
a commissary of police for permission to sing.  The commissary, who was smoking at his ease,
politely doffed his hat upon the singer's entrance.  'Mr. Commissary,' he began, 'I am an artist.'
And on went the commissary's hat again.  No courtesy for the companions of Apollo!  'They are
as degraded as that,' said M. de Vauversin with a sweep of his cigarette.

But what pleased me most was one outbreak of his, when we had been talking all the evening
of the rubs, indignities, and pinchings of his wandering life.  Some one said, it would be
better to have a million of money down, and Mlle. Ferrario admitted that she would prefer that
mightily.  'Eh bien, moi non;--not I,' cried De Vauversin, striking the table with his hand.
'If any one is a failure in the world, is it not I?  I had an art, in which I have done things
well--as well as some--better perhaps than others; and now it is closed against me.  I must
go about the country gathering coppers and singing nonsense.  Do you think I regret my life?
Do you think I would rather be a fat burgess, like a calf?  Not I!  I have had moments when
I have been applauded on the boards:  I think nothing of that; but I have known in my own mind
sometimes, when I had not a clap from the whole house, that I had found a true intonation,
or an exact and speaking gesture; and then, messieurs, I have known what pleasure was, what
it was to do a thing well, what it was to be an artist.  And to know what art is, is to have
an interest for ever, such as no burgess can find in his petty concerns.  Tenez, messieurs,
je vais vous le dire--it is like a religion.'

Such, making some allowance for the tricks of memory and the inaccuracies of translation, was
the profession of faith of M. de Vauversin.  I have given him his own name, lest any other
wanderer should come across him, with his guitar and cigarette, and Mademoiselle Ferrario;
for should not all the world delight to honour this unfortunate and loyal follower of the Muses?
May Apollo send him rimes hitherto undreamed of; may the river be no longer scanty of her silver
fishes to his lure; may the cold not pinch him on long winter rides, nor the village jack-in-office
affront him with unseemly manners; and may he never miss Mademoiselle Ferrario from his side,
to follow with his dutiful eyes and accompany on the guitar!

The marionnettes made a very dismal entertainment.  They performed a piece, called Pyramus
and Thisbe, in five mortal acts, and all written in Alexandrines fully as long as the performers.
One marionnette was the king; another the wicked counsellor; a third, credited with exceptional
beauty, represented Thisbe; and then there were guards, and obdurate fathers, and walking gentlemen.
Nothing particular took place during the two or three acts that I sat out; but you will he
pleased to learn that the unities were properly respected, and the whole piece, with one exception,
moved in harmony with classical rules.  That exception was the comic countryman, a lean marionnette
in wooden shoes, who spoke in prose and in a broad patois much appreciated by the audience.
He took unconstitutional liberties with the person of his sovereign; kicked his fellow-marionnettes
in the mouth with his wooden shoes, and whenever none of the versifying suitors were about,
made love to Thisbe on his own account in comic prose.

