The larger and more important a thing is, the less effect the years have upon it, and the more
difficult becomes the task of the enterprising workman who seeks to simulate the wrinkles time
would leave.  In the case of cities, the task is practically hopeless.  There is only one way
for a city to attain the beauty and the haunting charm of age, and that is to wait patiently
until time has finished his slow work.  It is hard to wait, and a new city is a crude and painful
thing. One can easily imagine the older cities looking scornfully or pityingly down upon it,
themselves secure in the grim or the delicate beauty of their age.  Only once in many generations
does a city rise which achieves a character, an individuality, without waiting for the lingering
years to bestow it.  It happens so seldom as to come almost into the realm of the miraculous.
Yet to him who for the first time sees New York at night, or as the declining sun sets ten
thousand roofs for the moment aflame--a miracle seems not more wonderful than this.

There are miles on miles of roofs in many a town, stretching away beyond the reach of sight;
there is, especially in the great cities of the old world, an immensity of movement which is
at once alien and akin to the great movements of earth and sea; there are cities which seem
great because of the multiplicity of things--men and ships and creeds and costumes which jostle
one another in every market place.  New York has all these things--yet they do not explain
New York--they are almost inconsiderable elements in the greater thing that is the city itself.
Wherein the essence lies--whether it is the purely superficial aspect of it, the imaginative
daring of its architecture, or some deeper and more subtle thing--no man can surely say.

There are strewn about in a thousand niches of the city little groups of buildings which seem
to have assembled themselves, by some lonesome impulse, into communities.  Primarily, of course,
these groupings are ethnological, these cities within a city being originally created largely
by the timidity of strangers in a strange land.  There are little Italys, and Chinatowns, and
diminutive Bohemias, all swung together by the action of this great centripetal force of loneliness.
The buildings in these communities, inflexible enough in all conscience as regards design,
contrive none the less to take on in some way a character and appearance peculiar to their
inhabitants; this may be a matter only of red Turkey turbans flapping in the breeze, or perhaps
of the haunting aroma of some national staple of food--but certainly it is there.  Scattered
through Manhattan, from the Battery to the Bronx, these five centers are witnesses as they
stand to the effect of circumstance on bricks and mortar.  And that there should be this visible
effect is no doubt natural enough, for the difference between nation and nation is a salient
thing.  It would be far stranger were it to fail of effect even on so unimpressionable a thing
as a six-story red-brick tenement house.

There are forces, however, which prove themselves hardly less potent than this force of fellow-nationality,
but which would at first thought be denied any vital molding power over people or over things.
These are the trades, and--less distinctive in their outward aspects, at least--the professions.
It is not odd that a fishing village or a mining camp should take on a certain character unique
to itself, but surely one would not expect a lawyer to impress on his environment a stamp so
unmistakable that one could say, observing it from without, "In this building lawyers plot."
Superficially there would be said to be scant difference between a lawyer and a broker or a
real estate dealer or an insurance man.  Yet in New York City, where communities of these professions
mesh and intermesh and overlap, there are still streets which are, and which could be, to a
trained eye, the habitat of financiers alone, and where at once all other wayfarers are seen
to be interlopers, or at best mere visitors at a fair.

Such a street is Wall Street, and such is Broad.  And on the eastern rim of this same zone
runs a street which, despite the countless changes that the years untiringly bring, could not
possibly be mistaken for anything but what it is, the great aorta of the fire insurance world.
William Street is as distinctly a fire insurance street as any street could possibly be distinctive
of its profession.

Scattered along the intersecting ways, but lining William Street from Pine to Fulton, are gathered
the fire insurance companies and the brokers, respectively the sellers and the buyers of insurance.
There you will find the homes of the big alert New York companies whose lofty steel and granite
buildings stand as fit monuments to their strength and endurance and enterprise, and the United
States headquarters of the dignified but aggressive British fire offices whose risks are scattered
over every portion of the earth where there is property to insure, and the metropolitan departments
of the great corporations that have made the name of Hartford, Connecticut, almost symbolic
of fire insurance. There are also the agencies, in each of which from one to a dozen smaller
companies have intrusted their local underwriting to some agency firm.  There too are the offices
of the world's leading reinsurance companies, most of them German or Russian, who accept their
business not from agents or property owners, but entirely from other insurance companies. 
There are the elaborately equipped offices of the local inspection and rating bureau maintained
by all the companies, and there are the offices of the dealers in automatic sprinklers, fire
alarms, extinguishers, and hose.  And throughout the whole district the buildings are honeycombed
with the almost countless brokers--from firms who transact as much business as a large insurance
company down to shabby men who have failed to succeed in other lines and who eke out an existence
on the commissions from an account or two handed them in friendship or in charity--all of them
the busy intermediaries between the insurers and the insured.

From morning till night these insurance men throng William Street, most of them representing
the brokers who feed the business into the great machine.  And it is no wonder that the street
is thronged, for the amount of detail requisite for every insurance effected is surprisingly
great.  Let us suppose that Brown, owning a building, desires to insure it.  He sends his order
to Jones, a broker who has solicited the business.  Jones's clerk enters up the order and makes
out a slip called a binder, which is an abbreviated form of contract insuring the customer
until a complete contract in the form of a policy can be issued.  This binding slip is given
to a clerk called the placer, whose duty it is to place the risk, or in other words to secure
the acceptance of the insurance by some company or companies.  The placer then goes into the
street, returning when his binder is completed by the acceptance of the amount desired, the
name of each company with the amount assumed and the initials of its representative being signed
in the spaces left for that purpose.  Forms must then be prepared by the broker to suit the
conditions of the risk and delivered to the companies, the rate schedule must be scrutinized
to see whether in any way a lower rate can be obtained, and as soon as possible the policies
themselves must be secured and delivered to the assured.  The premium must then be collected
and remitted, less the broker's commission, to the companies.  And the broker's duty does not
end even here.  He must watch the risk for changes in occupancy, protect his client's interests
in the event of a loss, and constantly fight like a tiger before the rating bureau to reduce
the rate lest some alert rival offer his customer better terms.

All this detail is quite smoothly transacted, supposing the business to be in the companies'
opinion desirable, but when the risk offered is what the street terms a "skate" or a "target,"
there is a sudden halt, and the completion of the binder becomes a more difficult matter. 
Then the really astute placer has a chance to demonstrate his efficiency. It is his function
to persuade with winged words his adversary, the company's local underwriter or "counterman,"
that the stock of cheap millinery belonging to the Slavonic gentlemen with the unfortunate
record of two fires of unknown origin and two opportune failures is even more desirable--at
the rate--than the large line on the substantial office building which he half exhibits, holding
suggestively back.  It is his duty to place all his business, not the good alone, and generally
he succeeds in eventually doing so, although some binders become tattered and grimy with age
and from having been handed futilely back and forth over the company counters.  The owner of
many a Fifth Avenue dwelling would be surprised could he know that the insurance on his property
had been utilized to force on some reluctant company a small line covering the sewing machines
in Meyer Leshinsky's Pike Street sweatshop.  Many an ingenious placer has had the binders of
his very worst risks--that he had been totally unable to cover--freshly typewritten every morning
in order to convey the impression that the order had that moment been secured by his firm and
that the hesitating counterman to whom it was being presented with elaborate indifference was
the first--the best friend of the placer--to whom the line had been offered.

On an eligible corner on the west side of William Street, at the very center of the Street's
activity, stood, in the year 1912, a gray stone structure of dignified though scarcely decorative
appearance.  On the stone slabs each side of the doorway, old style brass letters proclaimed--if
so modest an announcement could be termed a proclamation--that here were the offices of

  THE GUARDIAN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
      OF THE
  CITY OF NEW YORK

Over this portal gray walls rose to the height of eight stories.  Such was the headquarters,
from an external aspect, of one of the oldest, safest, and best of local companies, which invariably,
for brevity, was known to friends and foes alike as "The Guardian of New York."

Entering the somewhat narrow vestibule, the visitor found himself in a small and gloomy hall,
confronted by two debilitated grille elevator doors which seemed sadly to need oiling, the
elevators behind which carried conservatively and without precipitancy those who wished to
ascend.  The two individuals who directed the leisurely progress of these cars were elderly
men who, like most of those in the Guardian's employment, had been in the service of the company
since it moved into the "new" building.  This migration had occurred about the time that torch-light
parades were marching up Broadway to the rhythmic cheers for "Blaine!  Blaine!  James G. Blaine!"
It is a melancholy truth that in a generation and a half eyes grow dim and limbs falter, but
in the opinion of the Guardian's management the fact that a man was no longer as young as he
had once been was no valid reason, unless he were actually incompetent, why he should not be
allowed to continue doing the best he could.  President Wintermuth himself had once been considerably
younger, and he knew it.  He called all his old employees by their first names, and unless
there rose a question of fidelity, he would no sooner have thought of discharging one of them
than he would have thought of going home and discharging his wife.  Some of the older ones,
indeed, antedated Mr. Wintermuth himself, and still regarded him with the kindly tolerance
of the days when they were the cognoscenti, and he the neophyte, learning the ropes at their hands.

One of the oldest in tenure, but a man incurably young for all that, was James Cuyler, the
head of the company's local department, in charge of all the business of the Metropolitan District,
and an underwriter as well known to the fraternity as the asphalt pavement of the street. The
Guardian's local department, which occupied the entire first floor of the building, except
the elevator space, was a busy place from nine o'clock till five on ordinary days and from
nine till one on Saturdays. Hour after hour, day after day, year after year, Mr. Cuyler stood
behind his long map counter, his genial but penetrating eye instantly assessing each man that
approached, sifting with quick glance the business offered, and detecting almost automatically
any trick or "joker" in that which his visitors presented.  Most of the men across the counter
naturally were brokers or their placing clerks, armed with binders on risks of all kinds, some
good and many more bad, for the good risks are usually snapped up in large amounts by the first
companies to whom they are taken, but the bad ones make their weary and often fruitless tour
of the entire street.  All of them, the good and bad alike, the placers commonly presented
to Mr. Cuyler with a bland innocence which deceived that astute veteran not at all.  The purpose
of the average broker was to induce the Guardian to accept his chaff with as little wheat as
he could possibly bestow, while Mr. Cuyler's, on the contrary, was to take the wheat and the
wheat alone.  The chaff he declined in three thousand manners, in every case fitting his refusal
to the refused one, always bearing in mind that that worthy's affections must not be permanently
and hopelessly alienated.

"John," he would say with a smile, "I'll write thirty-five thousand on that fireproof building
for you, but I can't take that rag stock.  I'd like to help you out, you understand, but I
simply can't touch the class.  Two years ago I wrote an accommodation line for Billy Heilbrun--some
old junk shop in Sullivan Street--and she smoked for a total loss in about a month, and I can
still recall the post-mortem I had with the President."

And under cover of this painful but purely fictitious incident he would whisk away the binder
on the fireproof building, returning it signed with one and the same movement, and smiling
a smile of chastened sorrow over his inability to assist his friend with the undesirable rag
offering.  Or else the office would see him lean forward impressively, and say, in a hushed
whisper, across the counter: "Now, Mr. Charles Webb, you're wasted in the insurance business.
If you have the cold nerve to offer me that old skate that's been turned down by every company
from the Continental down to the Kickapoo Lloyds--well, you ought to be in the legislature,
that's where you ought to be!"

"But here's something to go with it--to sweeten it up," the unabashed Mr. Webb would probably
protest, producing another risk of equally detrimental description.  Then Mr. Cuyler would turn.

"Harry," he would say, "put on your hat and take Mr. Webb back to his office.  He's not himself;
the heat is too much for him."

And Mr. Webb would smile--and be lost.

There are very few positions which make greater demands upon one's judgment, one's diplomacy,
and one's temper than this one which Mr. Cuyler had filled so long and so inimitably.  To pick
a man's pocket of all its contents, deliberately selecting those of sufficient value to retain
and throwing the remainder back in his face, is a matter for fine art, for the broker must
not be angered or a good connection is lost to the office.

And there are artists in both galleries.  There are placers who have all the fine frenzy of
a starving poet in a midnight garret, men who would make the fortune of a country hotel if
they would but write for it a single testimonial advertisement, men whose flow of persuasive
talk is almost hypnotic, whose victims are held just as surely as ever was Wedding Guest--and
with this difference, that while that classic personage merely turned up late to the ceremony,
these charmed men listen to the siren tongue until they find themselves doing things which
may very readily--if fate is unkind and the risk burns--cost them their repute and their positions
as well.

When such a Pan-Hellenic meeting occurred, Mr. Cuyler rose to his highest triumphs.  It was
perhaps a frame celluloid goods factory in Long Island City, which some soul-compelling voice
had just finished describing, accoutering the grisly thing in all the garments of verbal glory.
One gathered that the Guardian's fate hung on the acceptance of this translucent risk, that
it was a prize saved from the clutches of a hundred grasping competitors and brought to the
counter of the Guardian like a pure white lamb to the altar of the gods.  When it was all over,
and nothing was wanting except Mr. Cuyler's signature to the binder--then Mr. Cuyler came into
his own.

"Joe," the organ note would start--"Joe, that looks as if it might be a first-rate risk of
its class, and some folks think it's not a bad class, too, when the hazards are properly arranged.
I've always thought myself that the bad record on celluloid workers was largely accidental.
And I don't see how I can turn down anything that comes from your office--I guess I'll have
to help you out with a small line, anyway.  Where's your binder?  Wait a second, though.  Let
me look at that map again--I forgot my exposing lines.  Well! we seem to be pretty full in
that block--eighty-five, ten, twelve-five, sixteen--by Jove! I'm afraid I'll have to pass that
up, after all--I didn't think I had so much around there.  Awfully sorry, old man; I'd take
it for you if I could for any man in the world."

And the binder was affably passed back over the counter.  But when, as probably developed at
this point, Mr. Cuyler was advised that his remarks bore convincing traces of the proximity
of an active steam-radiator and that the broker knew perfectly well that the Guardian hadn't
a dollar at risk within three blocks--it was then that the real contest began.  Celluloid was
a mighty hazardous article--was Joe aware that in New York State alone the losses had been
nearly three times the premiums on the class?  Perhaps this was accidental, but it was a fact
just the same.  But after all, what else could one expect? Celluloid was very much like gun-cotton--made
out of practically the same constituents--and only a little less dangerous to handle.  It also
appeared that celluloid works all over the country had for the last year been unusually disastrous
to the underwriters, and that the President himself had written a letter on the subject to
the various rating bureaus.  Honestly, it would be more than Cuyler, with all his extreme desire
to oblige, would dare do--to tell the old man that the local department had written a celluloid
factory.  His good friend, the caller, Mr. Cuyler felt certain, would not wish to see the venerable
hairs of the Guardian's local secretary trampled into the dust by the infuriate heels of the
board of directors, led by the outraged President Wintermuth himself.  No, he was extremely
sorry, but he simply--could not--take--the risk.

And take it he would not.  Such was James Cuyler.  For thirty years he had stood at the Guardian's
local threshold, fidelity personified, a watch-dog extraordinary that could not have been duplicated
in all watchdogdom.  He had but one superstition and but one grievance.

His superstition was that he would not allow a customer to enter the office after the clock
struck the first blow of five.  At that moment, if no employee was at hand, he himself would
step out from behind the counter, close the door, and turn the key in the lock.  And the best
friend of the office could not have gained admission once the key was turned.

"Why do I do it?" he would say.  "My boy, at about half-past five P.M. on June fourteenth,
eighteen eighty-nine, I was alone in the office, and Herman White, who used to be placer for
Schmidt and Sulzbacher, came in with a ten thousand dollar line on coffee in one of those Brooklyn
shorefront warehouses.  I guess all the other offices must have shut up, for Herman never gave
me anything he didn't have to.  He banged on the door, and I let him in, and the risk was all
right and we were wide open, and I took his ten thousand. . . .  And about twenty minutes later,
as I stood on the front deck of the Wall Street ferryboat crossing the river, the flames burst
out of the roof of that warehouse, and we paid nine thousand two hundred and thirty-seven dollars
for that coffee. . . .  This office closes at five P.M."

This was his superstition, and he lived up to it with absolute consistency.  His one grievance
was not quite so deep, which probably explained his lesser insistence upon it.  This grievance
was simply that the conservative policy of the company would not let him accept more than a
fraction of what he would have wished to write on the island of Manhattan.  Like all men who
constantly live in the presence of a peril and grow thus to minimize it, Mr. Cuyler had grown
to think and to feel that New York, his New York, could never have a serious, sweeping fire,
a conflagration.  This being so, and the local business being profitable, to write so small
an amount in the city was equivalent to throwing money sinfully away.  Why, companies not half
so large were doing double the Guardian's business, and with golden results.  But only at long
intervals did he permit himself the luxury of articulately bemoaning his fate, for in spite
of his own conviction he felt that any implied criticism of his chief was disloyal. Occasionally,
however, his feelings would overcome him, and then he would burst forth into a hurricane of
lamentations.

"The finest town in the country," he would say; "and look at what we write!  I could double
our income in a week if the old man would let me.  But he won't.  He keeps talking 'conflagration
hazard' and 'keep your lines down in the dry goods district' and 'aggregate liability,' and
I can't get him to loosen up a particle.  He always says we have enough at risk now.  Enough
at risk!  Look at what the company writes in Boston!  Why, the Guardian must have half as much
at risk in the congested district of Boston as I write here!  And Boston!  Of all towns in
the world!"

Mr. Cuyler was not a Bostonian.

It was perfectly true; Mr. Wintermuth was not a strictly consistent underwriter, and perhaps
some day he would adopt Mr. Cuyler's viewpoint.  And then, the flood-gates open, the local
secretary would come into his metropolitan own.  Certainly, if the Guardian's line in Boston
was safe, its liability in New York was small indeed.  But the Boston business had always shown
a profit, and James Wintermuth and Silas Osgood had grown up together in the insurance world;
and so for the present the Boston line would stand.  And it was impossible to satisfy Mr. Cuyler,--he
was continually moaning about the restrictions under which he labored,--and so it was likely
that nothing would be done in New York, either.  James Wintermuth was a conservative man.

One could have told it at his first glance about the President's office, on the top floor of
the Guardian building.  In the first place, the office, although it was located in the sunniest
corner of the building, preserved nevertheless a kind of cathedral gloom.  Dark shades in the
windows reduced the light across Mr. Wintermuth's obsolete roll-top desk to never more than
that of a dull afternoon.  No impertinent rays of the sun could further fade the faded rug
which clothed the center of the room.  On the wall hung likenesses of the former heads of the
company, now long since in their graves.  Over the desk was an old print of the Lisbon earthquake;
the germaneness of this did not at once appear,--in fact, it never appeared,--but the picture
had always hung there, and in Mr. Wintermuth's opinion that was ample cause and justification.

Only in the corner, almost out of sight behind the desk, was the room's single absolute incongruity.
There the surprised visitor saw, reposing quietly in its shadowy retreat, a hundred pound dumb-bell.
This was the President's sole remaining animal joy, the presence of this dumb-bell.  He rarely
touched it now, although the colored janitor's assistant scrupulously dusted it each morning,
but it was an agreeable reminder of the days when the old lion was young and when his teeth,
metaphorically speaking, were new and sharp.  For years it had been his custom to lift this
ponderous object three times above his head before opening his mail in the morning--and he
would never hire a field man or inspector who could not do likewise.

Now, of course, these trials of strength were over for Mr. Wintermuth--and what he no longer
did himself he asked none other to do.  But there the relic lay, a substantial memorial of
Spring in the veins.  Once in a while, at long intervals, Smith, in whom the old man had a
sort of shamefaced pride, would eye the thing respectfully.

"Put it up, Richard," Mr. Wintermuth would direct; "I used to do it every morning for twenty
years."  And Smith--with considerable effort--would put it up.

"I'd never have let you go to work for the Guardian, when you came and struck me for a position,
if you hadn't been able to do that, my boy," said the President, reflectively.

And Smith would listen patiently to the oft-told tale.  He was sincerely fond of the old autocrat,
and able to bear with his growing acerbity better than he could have done had he not known
the real spirit of the man.  During the past year or two it seemed to Smith that his chief
was showing his age more plainly than ever before.  He was still under sixty-five, but he was
coming to live more than ever in the past, and was growing more and more impervious to the
new ideas and new methods which modern conditions constantly brought.

"The greatest trouble with the old man is," as Cuyler was heard to say on one occasion, "he
has the 4 per cent bond habit."

It was perfectly, true.  What was safe and what was sure appealed more strongly to James Wintermuth
with the passage of every year.  Not for him were the daring methods of those companies who
employed their resources in tremendous plunges in and out of the stock market, not for him
the long chances in which most of his competitors gloried.  The Guardian was doing well enough.
Its capital of $750,000 was ample; its surplus of $500,000 very respectable; its premium income
of a million and three quarters perfectly adequate, in Mr. Wintermuth's opinion. And the stockholders,
receiving dividends of 12 per cent per annum, lean years and fat alike, never audibly complained.

In appearance the Guardian's President upheld the best traditions of the old school from which
he sprang.  Above middle height, his erect figure gave him still much the air of a cavalier.
His acute black eyes and trim white mustache made him certain to attract notice wherever he
went--a fact of which he was not wholly unconscious.  Even now, when gradually, almost imperceptibly,
the springiness was fading from his step, he seemed a strong and virile man.  His directors,
most of them his contemporaries and whose insurance knowledge was limited to what they had
learned on the Guardian directorate, trusted and believed in him with absolute implicitness.
Any act on behalf of the company, when done by the President, they promptly ratified; and indeed
they had for many years made it palpable to the meanest intelligence that they considered James
Wintermuth the head, brain, heart, and all the other vital organs of the company which they--nominally--directed.
In short, James Wintermuth was the Guardian.

There was in all the Street one man alone who would have taken exception to this analysis--and
he kept his opinion securely locked in his secretive, his very secretive brain.  This man was
F. Mills O'Connor, Vice-President of the Guardian.

CHAPTER V

"Turn up Providence Two," said Mr. O'Connor.  As the gentleman in question appeared at his
office door en route to the map desk, his asperity of manner seemed to Herbert, the map clerk,
even more pronounced than usual, and his voice was fully accordant.  It was never a dulcet
organ, at best; but its owner rarely felt that his business transactions could be assisted
by the employment of flute notes; when he did, he sank his tones to a confidential whisper
intended to flatter and impress his auditor, and it usually seemed to serve the purpose. But
with his map clerks and his subordinates generally he gave free play to his natural raucousness,
and he probably acted upon excellent judgment.

Herbert, whose eye and ear from long practice had grown to detect the exact degree of urgency
in every call, with the agility of his Darwinian ancestry quickened by his native wit, dashed
over to the desk under which the Rhode Island maps reposed.  He swung the big gray-bound volume
up onto the broad, flat counter with all the skill of a successful vaudeville artist, and none
too soon, for he who had demanded it was at his elbow.

"What page do you want, Mr. O'Connor?" asked Herbert.

The Vice-president glanced at the daily report he held in his hand, and turned back the yellow
telegraph blank that was pinned to it.

"Sheet one fifty-six," he said shortly.  "No--one fifty-six.  That will do."  He turned to
a boy.  "Find out for me if Mr. Wintermuth is in his office."

The boy, whose name was Jimmy, sped off, soliloquizing as he went: "Gee, there must be somethin'
up to get O'C. as hot as that!"  Arrived at the opposite end of the big room, he reconnoitered
for a view of the President's office.  By virtue of some little strategy he presently managed
to catch sight of Mr. Wintermuth, seated at his desk, pen in hand, in his most magisterial
attitude, listening judicially to the remarks of some visitor.  Jimmy, who was no fool, recognized
the stranger as the business manager of an insurance paper about half whose space was given
to articles highly eulogistic of certain insurance companies whose advertisements, by some
singular coincidence, invariably appeared further on in the publication.  From the position
of the two Jimmy deduced that the conversation was not likely to be terminated very soon, and
dashed back to Mr. O'Connor with that intelligence.  The Vice-President was still studying
the many-colored sheet.

"Busy, eh?  Well, leave that map turned up, and let me know as soon as he is at liberty." 
And he strode back to his own office and shut the door with a slam that disturbed the serene
spectacles of Mr. Otto Bartels, who was sedulously studying a long row of figures on a reinsurance
bordereau.

Mr. Bartels was Secretary of the Guardian, and his office adjoined that of the Vice-president.
Mr. Bartels, who was very short and stout, and very methodical, and Teutonic beyond all else,
looked up with mild surprise in his placid eyes and the hint of something on his face which
in a more mobile countenance would have been an expression of gentle remonstrance.  His place
was lost, in the column he was scanning, by the dislodgment of his spectacles, which he wore
well down toward the lower reaches of his nose--it would have been out of place to speak of
that organ as possessing an end or a tip, for it was much too bulbous for any such term to
fit.  Taking the spectacles with both hands, he replaced them at their wonted angle, and with
that phantom of disapproval still striving for expression and outlet among his features, he
resumed his employment.

Otto Bartels was a discovery of Mr. Wintermuth's, many years before, when that gentleman occupied
a less conspicuous position with the corporation of which he was now long since the head. 
One day, sitting at his desk, he looked up to observe a youth who stood gravely regarding him
in silence for at least three minutes before his speech struggled near enough the surface to
make itself audible.  It appeared that the stranger was in need of a position, that he was
accurate, though not quick at figures, and that he would begin work for whatever wage was found
proper.  He was given a trial in the accounts department, and for five years his sponsor heard
no more of him.  At the end of that time he found that his protégé had worked up to the position
of assistant chief clerk.  Three years later the drinking water of the New Jersey suburb where
he resided terminated the earthly career of the chief clerk, and Bartels became chief clerk,
managing the department as nearly as was humanly possible without speech of any kind.  And
when, twenty years from the time the Guardian saw him first, Otto Bartels found himself authorized
to write Secretary after his flowing signature, it was an appointment inevitable.  He had simply
pushed his way out of the crowd by grace of his unremitting thoroughness, his industry, which
was really not especially creditable, as nothing but work ever occurred to him, and a gratifying
inability to make errors of detail.  He knew the name of every agent on the company's list,
when each one was expected to pay his balances, and how much in premiums each annually reported.
He never wrote letters, for it was impossible for him to dictate to a stenographer; he rarely
took a vacation, for he had nowhere to go and nothing to do outside the office; he never engaged
in discernible social intercourse of any sort, for he had never known how to begin.  Such was
the methodical man who so efficiently kept the books and records of the Guardian.  He knew
and cared nothing about underwriting, regarding the insurance operations of the company as
a possibly important but purely secondary consideration. In Mr. Bartels's opinion the company's
records were the company.

The underwriting department of the Guardian occupied, with the officers' quarters, the upper
two floors of the rather narrow building. On the top floor were the East and the South, under
the immediate supervision of Smith, the General Agent, and the offices of Mr. Wintermuth, Mr.
O'Connor, and Mr. Bartels.  The President occupied the southeast corner and the two others
the northeast end, while Smith's desk was out in the open office, with the maps and files and
survey cases and his subordinates under his eye.

On the floor below Assistant-Secretary Wagstaff held forth; he was in charge of the Western
Department, which comprised the states from Ohio, Kentucky, and Tennessee westward to the coast.
Mr. Wagstaff was a competent, careful, unimaginative, unambitious man who did his work from
day to day.  He enters this story virtually not at all; be it enough to say that he had a red
mustache and a bald, bright head and wore shoes with cloth tops.  He took good care of his
territory, and if he never made much money for the company, he never lost any.  So much for
Edgar Wagstaff.

Before returning to the top floor, however, one character in Mr. Wagstaff's entourage must
be brought majestically forward into view. This dignified personage was Jenkins, the clerk
of the Pacific Coast accounts.  Mr. Jenkins was, in his youth, a mathematician of remarkable
promise.  His dexterity with arithmetic and algebra was such that his family began to think
that could this ability at figures be translated into terms of Wall Street there might be a
Napoleon of finance bearing the proud if somewhat homely name of Jenkins.  But unfortunately
it seemed otherwise to the fates, for Mr. Jenkins, with advancing years, found his Napoleonic
onrush irresistibly diverted toward pleasant byways frequented in the golden age by one Bacchus,
god of wine. Apparently the disinclination for the dusty road of duty had resulted in much
satisfaction and no lasting damage to Bacchus, but far otherwise was it with Jenkins.  He fared
as conscientiously in Bacchus's footsteps as he could, but his was not the true Bacchanalian
temperament.  Under the influence of the grape Jenkins, instead of becoming gay, waxed ever
more portentous and sublime.  When he was almost sober, say of a Friday afternoon, he was grave,
merely creating the impression that some long-past tragedy had clouded his life.  When he was
by way of being what one may denominate half-interested, his face assumed the saturnine expression
of an ancient misanthrope, but when at last he reached the full flower of his magnificent endeavors,
the silent severity of his countenance became so forbidding and sinister as to freeze the smile
from the lips of a happy child.  By his face you might know him, but it would of necessity
be by the face alone, for so perfect was his control of his dominated limbs that never a quiver
betrayed him, and no degree of saturation seemed to affect at all the impeccable footing of
his columns.

A spiral staircase connected the seventh and eighth floors of the Guardian building, constructed
for the convenience of the clerks who had to do with several departments.  It was near the
top of this staircase that Smith had his desk, in the center of the maelstrom. Smith strongly
believed in being in the center of things, and from where he sat he could overlook every foot
of the space occupied by the Eastern Department.  As he was supervisor, he intended to supervise--wherein
lay one of the chief sources of his value.

"Jimmy, bring me the Journal of Commerce," he said to the invaluable and ubiquitous one.

"Mr. O'Connor's got it on his desk, sir," replied that youth, almost breathlessly.  Speed in
action had so demanded equivalent celerity in diction that often speech came badly second in
endurance, causing him to sputter and gasp for completed utterance.

"Well, go and see if he isn't through with it," Smith directed.  "I haven't seen the losses
yet this morning."

Almost immediately, a modern Manhattan Mercury, Jimmy was again at his side.

"No, sir--he says he's still usin' it," he reported.

"Bring it to me when he's finished," Smith closed the matter, devoting himself to other things.
Those requiring his attention were numerous enough, but first of all came an interruption in
the shape of a caller.

All manner of men come into the agency department of an insurance company.  Smith's field covered
the whole Atlantic Coast and Gulf sections of the country, and the agents from these states
alone made quite an army, and any one of these agents was likely at any time to appear from
a bland blue sky, completely upsetting the General Agent's continuity of work.  Then there
were the placers from the brokerage firms, offering out-of-town risks which most of them had
personally never seen and knew little or nothing about, and whose descriptive powers were all
the greater for being unhampered by any blunt facts, a few of which are so often fatal to a
successful rhetorical ascension. Then there were the various clients of the company who came
straggling in to have a New York City policy transferred to cover for six days at Old Point
Comfort, or to ask whether the presence of a Japanese heater--size two by three and one half
inches--would destroy the validity of their policy; and there was the lady whose false teeth
fell into the kitchen stove while she was putting on a scuttle of coal, and who thought the
company should reimburse her for the loss under her policy which covered all her personal effects
and wearing apparel; and then there was the suspicious individual who called to make sure that
his premium had been properly transmitted to the company, for the local agent in his town has
strange ways and looked very peculiar when accepting the money.

These and a hundred others, all in the way of business; and in addition there were the shifting
atoms of humanity who float in and out of the office buildings of a great city, pensioners
for the most part on either the bounty or the carelessness of busy men--waifs in the industrial
orbit who gain their living by various established or ingenious variations of the more indirect
forms of brigandage.  There were men selling books that probably no one in the world would
ever wish to buy or to read; women soliciting funds for charitable institutions which might
or might not exist; salesmen positively enthusiastic in their desire to give the Guardian the
benefit of their patent pencil sharpeners, or gas crowns, or asbestos window shades, or loose-leaf
ledgers, or roach powder of peculiar pungency and efficiency.  Of course the elevator attendants
were supposed to distinguish between the sheep and the goats, and to let only legitimate callers
ascend, but the discretionary power of the Ethiopian is scarcely subtle--or at least such was
the case with the Guardian's staff of watchdogs--and as a result many a visitor reached the
floor where Smith presided only to have his disguise fall from him at his first word and to
be politely ejected by the invaluable Jimmy, who was accustomed to accompany the gentle strangers
as far as the street door in order that there might be no misapprehension on their part.

This particular morning Smith disposed with more or less ease of several claimants to his attention,
before he was finally brought to a pause by the appearance of Mr. Darius Howell of Schuyler,
Maine, who had come to New York in connection with his potato business, and who had incidentally
decided to call at the office of the Guardian which he also had the honor locally to represent.
Years before, Smith had once visited Schuyler, and at that time had met the small, grizzled
individual who now stood before him.  He had not, however, the slightest idea of the identity
of his visitor, and waited a brief moment for a clew to aid him.

"You don't remember me, I reckon," said the caller.  "I remember you, though, Mr. Smith.  My
name is Darius--"

"Howell," said Smith, instantly, getting up to shake hands.  Of all the agents reporting to
him there was only one Darius.  "I remember you very well.  I hope you haven't come to tell
me that Schuyler has burned up.  Come in and sit down.  It must be five years since I've seen you."

"Six years come next July," agreed the other, cautiously.  It would have been impossible for
him to admit the simplest proposition without some sort of qualification; he never had done
so, and there seemed no valid reason to suppose that he ever would.

"And how is Schuyler coming along?" inquired the General Agent, with decided deference to the
conventionalities of such interviews.

"Oh, so so," replied the man from Maine.  "There ain't been much change up there since you
was there.  That is, not what you'd really call a change.  How's things with you?  The company
still pays dividends, I see."

Mr. Howell was the owner of four shares of the company's stock.

"Doing all right," Smith responded.  "The Guardian believes in making haste slowly, you know;
we don't go ahead very fast, but we keep plugging along.  Mr. Wintermuth feels it's always
best to be on the safe side.  Occasionally it's discouraging when we see some competitor build
up an income in three or four years as big as ours that it's taken three or four generations
to establish, but when we read some morning that our enterprising friends have had to reinsure
their liability with some stronger concern and retire from business because their losses have
caught up to them, we don't feel quite so badly. Personally I think we could travel a little
faster, and I'd like to see our premiums twice what they are now.  And I hope you'll double
them this year in Schuyler, anyway."

"Maybe so, but you never can tell.  Business is liable to slack up just when you think it's
going along all right.  And there ain't been any new building in Schuyler of any account for
two years back but Dodge's feed mill and the new Union School.  You've got a line on both of them."

At this point their conversation was interrupted because of the departure of the persistent
gentleman, who had been closeted with Mr. Wintermuth.  As the door closed on him, Jimmy disappeared
around the corner and thrust his head and fore quarters, so to speak, into O'Connor's open doorway.

"Th' President's at liberty now," he announced.

Without replying, the Vice-President picked up the Journal of Commerce and the daily report
with the yellow telegram affixed to it, and strode over, past Smith's desk, to the office of
his chief.

"Can you come out and look at the map a minute, sir?" he asked respectfully.

"Certainly.  What is it?  A loss?" replied Mr. Wintermuth, noticing the telegraph slip as he
rose from his chair and followed O'Connor toward the map counter.

"Yes," said the Vice-president.  He was passing the desk of the General Agent, and he took
care that his remark might be overheard.  "And it looks to me like something we ought not to
have had."

"What's that?" rejoined the older man, quickly.  "We're not accepting business that we shouldn't
write, are we?  What is it?  And who passed it?"

"Smith seems to have approved the line," O'Connor said slowly. "Herbert, I thought I told you
to leave that Providence map out for me."

"It's right there, sir," said the map clerk; "right where you left it, sir."

"Here's the risk," said the Vice-president, pointing it out to his superior with every sign
of decent regret.  "It seems to be a mattress factory, a class we never write. . . .  Smith
appears to have passed it--there's his initial.  Of course, he may have had some special reason
for--"

Mr. Wintermuth interrupted him.

"Herbert, ask Mr. Smith if he will not step this way for a moment, please."

To the man from Maine the General Agent said: "You'll excuse me for a minute?"

And Darius Howell, with astonishing definiteness, replied: "Sure--go ahead."

Smith found his two officers awaiting him by the open map.  From the expression on O'Connor's
face he suspected that that gentleman had discovered something not displeasing to him, and
unconsciously he found his own shoulders squaring themselves as though for a conflict.

"We have here," began the President, slowly, "a loss at Providence on a risk which Mr. O'Connor
seems to think we should not have written."

"Where is the risk, sir?" Smith asked quietly.

"Here.  Here is the daily report.  It is approved by you. . . . Probably there is something
about the risk which does not appear on the face of it.  Do you remember the circumstances?"

Smith looked the daily report over carefully.  It certainly showed the risk, just as plainly
as the map also showed it, to be a mattress factory, a class prohibited by the Guardian, and
there were Smith's own interwoven initials.  Then, suddenly, at the sight of the hieroglyph,
he remembered.  "Why, you passed this line yourself, Mr. O'Connor," was on his lips to say.
But he did not say it.  For by the cold light in the eyes of the Vice-President he knew that
course useless.

"I remember the risk," he said, addressing himself to Mr. Wintermuth. "It was a direct line
of our local agents, and they were very anxious to have us take a small amount.  It was accepted
as an accommodation, and I reinsured one half, as you see, sir.  Is it a bad loss?"

"Reported total," replied the other, turning over the telegram.  "My boy, you're usually so
careful, I don't understand how you came to put through such business.  You ought at least
to have referred it to Mr. O'Connor or myself."

Smith glanced again at the Vice-president, but that gentleman remained silent, and the General
Agent again swallowed what was on his tongue to utter.

"Yes, sir, I should have done so," he substituted.

Mr. Wintermuth continued: "We cannot write such risks as that and hope to make an underwriting
profit.  They say I am a believer in 4 per cent bonds--perhaps I am, but I am not a believer
in 4 per cent mattress factories."  The old gentleman softened his criticism with a smile.

But to Smith, feeling rather than seeing the half-hidden satisfaction of the Vice-president,
the President's kindly manner proved of little comfort.  For Smith and O'Connor knew that the
line in question had been submitted to O'Connor, and that in view of the competition of several
very liberal companies in the Providence agency, the Vice-president had authorized its acceptance.
With his wonted caution, however, he had refrained from putting himself on record, other than
orally.

"Reinsure half, and put it through, Smith," he had directed; and Smith had done so.

In cases where his own security was involved, Mr. F. Mills O'Connor was an exceedingly cautious
man.  Looking before he leaped was with him almost a passion; and if he expected to leap on
a Thursday, it was generally estimated that he began his preliminary looking on Monday of the
week before.

He was a large, clean-shaven, dark-haired man of indeterminate age.  By his profession at large
he was little known, but in the Guardian office he was very well known indeed and excellently
understood, and an appreciation of his character and qualities truthfully set down by the observant
Jimmy or by Herbert, the map clerk, would never have been selected by the O'Connor family as
satisfactory material for a flattering obituary notice.

It appeared likely, however, that it would be a long time before his obituary would be written.
He was probably, at this time, a year or two the other side of forty, and his care of himself
was unimpeachable, for he guarded his health as carefully as he did his other assets.  He had
become Vice-President and underwriting head of the company several years before this story
opens, and it seemed probable that he would hold that position indefinitely--or perhaps it
would be nearer the truth to say until some more advantageous position lay open to him.

Mr. O'Connor was what is commonly termed a cold proposition, and if there was any sentiment
in him it was so carefully secreted that for ordinary purposes it was non-existent.  Yet he
was not unpopular.  When he so desired, he could assume a spurious geniality so closely resembling
the genuine article that few persons, and none of his agents, ever discovered the difference.
And his business efficiency was commonly taken for granted.

Indeed, there was but one man in the insurance fraternity who assessed Mr. O'Connor at very
nearly his proper value, and that man O'Connor disliked and feared as vividly as his rather
apathetic nature would admit.  The one man was Smith.  Whoever might sail the seas in ships
of illusion regarding the Vice-president of the Guardian, Smith saw the facts clear and looked
at them squarely.

The principal cause of Smith's own position in the company was his own vitality and industry,
but next to that was the fact that Mr. Wintermuth had originally given him a chance and then
declined to permit any one to impede his natural progression.  This attitude was due principally
to the President's conviction of his own ability to judge men.  Having once made up his mind,
he allowed no one to tell him anything about any of his employees.  He always said: "I watch
the boys myself, and what I can't see I don't want to know."  In the old days what he did not
see was of no especial importance to the Guardian Insurance Company, but the eyes of an old
lion grow also old.  Yet the habit remained, and thus all Mr. O'Connor's efforts to discredit
his ambitious young assistant had so far fallen on ears stone-deaf and hermetically sealed.
But the Vice-president could never forgive the younger man for looking at him with so unimpressed
a gaze, and never missed an opportunity to show his prejudice to their mutual chief.

There had been several incidents of a similar nature previous to the mattress factory loss,
where Smith had been either indirectly advised or permitted by O'Connor to take a certain course,
only to find himself excoriated when the risk burned or the outcome proved otherwise disastrous.
Only a short time before, Smith had been sent into New York State, acting under vice-presidential
order of procedure, to straighten out the Guardian's relations with the local division of the
Eastern Conference.  The Eastern Conference was an organization to which most of the leading
companies belonged.  Its function was the orderly regulation of all matters affecting its members'
relations with their agents.  Theoretically its primary purpose was to prevent the overcompensation
of some agents at the expense of others.  If it did not always succeed in doing this, it did
at least succeed in making extremely embarrassing the lot of any company operating outside
of its organization.  It was everywhere an arbitrary body, and its New York State branch was
perhaps the least disciplined of any of its constituent parts, and was moreover suspected of
favoring some of its own members at the expense of others.  President Wintermuth, loyal to
his associates, but patient only up to a certain point, had of late begun to consider that
his company was decidedly in the latter class. It was easy to see that a diplomat's hand was
needed to accomplish what Smith was sent to accomplish, and Smith could be a diplomat of parts
when the need arose; but his instructions from Mr. O'Connor had left him so little latitude
that he was obliged to return without securing any positive action of any sort.

"They will take the matter up at the next meeting," he reported.

O'Connor transmitted this report to the President with an expression of disappointment.

"We ought to have had that thing fixed up.  And if it had been handled right, it would have
been fixed up now," he said.

Whereat the President, with one of his flashes of clear vision, replied suavely, "And who gave
Smith his instructions?"

It was only a chance shot on Mr. Wintermuth's part, but it went straight to the mark, and it
rankled.  O'Connor knew--or felt reasonably sure--that Smith had not mentioned the matter to
any one but himself, yet the chief had struck unerringly the nail's head.  And all this endeared
Smith but little to the man who had never liked him.

It is none too comfortable to work for a man who will covertly begrudge you your successes
and indifferently conceal his satisfaction at your mistakes; for the stoutest hearted it is
a discouraging business.  This Smith found it, and he would have found it still more discouraging
had it not been for the exuberance of his enthusiasm for his profession and his healthy appetite
for most real things that came his way--real work, real pleasures, real sport, and perhaps
a few real follies.  Many times, after a bad hour spent in a futile defense against the only
half-perceptible hostility of O'Connor, he would find himself seriously questioning whether
he would not do more wisely to leave the Guardian and hazard a new fortune in another field.
Yet all the while he knew that this course of speculation was idle and a waste of time and
cerebral tissues.  He was a Guardian man, and with the Guardian he was going to stay--unless
the Company itself took a different view.  Of course there was a time coming when Mr. Wintermuth
would lay down his badge of office, but before that time much would occur.  Sufficient unto
that day would be its own evil, without enhancing it by imaginary additions.  So Smith stood
by his post, but there was at times an expression in his face which gave F. Mills O'Connor
himself cause for careful consideration.

But to Darius Howell, somewhat awkwardly saying good-by at the Guardian's door, Smith's smile
was as sunny as the skies of Schuyler, Maine.  For troubles often turned out to be largely
imaginary, while Darius was indubitably real.

CHAPTER VI

Promptly at nine o'clock in the morning of every business day for fifteen years, Hannibal G.
Pelgram, uncle of Stanwood Pelgram, had seated himself at his desk in the office of the Pelgram
Plumbers' Supply Company, and it was rarely that he left before his stenographer had begun
to show signs of impatience and anxiety.  But in the sixteenth year of his reign his liver,
which up to that time had acted with the most commendable regularity, began to develop alarming
eccentricities of behavior.  Mr. Pelgram became gradually less certain in his attendance, and
finally his struggle with the refractory liver ended in the victory of that inconspicuous but
important organ, and he passed peacefully away at a German spa in the course of taking a cure
which would very likely have killed him even had he been in perfectly normal health.

His will began by the customary direction to his executor to pay his just debts and funeral
expenses--exactly as though the executor was assumed to be a thoroughly unscrupulous person
who, although not benefiting himself in the least by his dishonesty, would try in every possible
way to evade settlement with all the dead man's legitimate creditors, including the undertaker.
Then he left a small bequest to a faithful cook and another to an endowed retreat for tuberculous
Baptists which already had more money than it could hope ever to use.  The residue, consisting
principally of stock in the Plumbers' Supply Company, went to Stanwood, with the earnest wish
that his nephew enter and eventually assume the direction of the business with which the family
name had been so long and so honorably identified.

Stanwood received the news with modified rapture.  He was grateful for financial independence,
but the idea of taking up the bathtub business struck him with dismay.  So with prudent forethought
he sought out Amory Carruth, a lawyer of his acquaintance; and to him explained his dilemma.
It required some measure of specious ingenuity to explain his errand as he wished; but Mr.
Carruth, being used to squirming legatees, understood and came to the point with a candor which
made Pelgram wince.  After first flippantly suggesting that the plumbing business would at
least afford Pelgram the chance to indulge his taste in porcelains, he eased the artist's mind
by a phrase as soothing as it was noncommittal.

"You can follow your uncle's will as regards the disposition of his property.  That part is
sane enough.  Whether it was equally sagacious, equally sane, to try to plunge you into the
plumbing business is not so clear.  We are, therefore, clearly justified if we say that he
knew how he wished to dispose of his estate, but his mental condition was such that his legatee
felt justified in modifying--in some degree--certain of his requests."

This apologetic theory was finally accepted.  Dawes, the manager, whose surplus income had
gone into the bank rather than into his liver, purchased the estate's interest, and on the
proceeds Stanwood had now for five years been conducting his elaborate studio on Copley Square.

The completion of Miss Maitland's portrait was marked by one of the artist's characteristic
functions.  By any person in the ordinary walks of life it would have been called a tea, but
Pelgram preferred to denominate it a private view.  Every time he completed a work that he
considered of real importance--relatively more often than modesty might have prescribed--he
celebrated the birth of the masterpiece by one of these oddly termed baptisms in tannin.  Possibly
they were entitled to be called views, as the opus bravely challenged the tea table in popularity,
and occasionally won by superior powers of endurance over a necessarily limited supply of edibles,
but certainly the privacy was questionable, as to each one of them Stanwood invited nearly
every one who might be expected to come.

Fortunately not a large proportion of these actually turned up.  Some came because they were
under obligations to the artist, and some because he was under obligations to them; some from
vague curiosity, and others from sheer ignorance.  Those who appeared at such a one as this,
where the portrait of a young girl was displayed, were roughly limited to a few easily identified
classes.  There was centrally the young girl herself, and then there were the members of her
family, all radiant except the purchaser of the picture, who customarily showed traces of sobriety
and skepticism.  There were one or two prospective patrons lured to the trap; some ephemeral
sycophants, volunteer or mercenary; a few idle fellow artists who enjoyed seeing a colleague
make what they considered to be an exhibition of himself; some inevitable people who went everywhere
they were asked, especially when there was a prospect of something to eat; and a few puzzled
and lonely-looking souls who could furnish no explanation of their attendance, did not stay
very long, and never came a second time.

At this view the role of sycophants was to be played by two young girls who had taken up self-cultivation
as a sort of fad, and had somehow become obsessed with the curious idea that art such as was
found in Pelgram's studio could assist them in their commendable pursuit of culture.  Their
host was consequently delighted when, at an early hour, Miss Heatherton and Miss Long arrived,
as they had promised to do.  Their manifest adoration would produce an admirable spot light
in which he might stand during the function, but more than that, he hoped that Helen herself
would be impressed by the deep regard in which these fair disciples evidently held him and
his work.  Miss Heatherton was to pour the tea, and Miss Long was to distribute the thin lettuce
sandwiches which formed its somewhat unsubstantial accompaniment.

Miss Heatherton's initial remark demonstrated the fact that, despite her plunge into what her
family considered a dangerous part of Bohemia, she had managed to preserve intact her adherence
to the traditional in conversational matters.  When Pelgram escorted her to the tea table,
she bleated a pathetic protest against his positive inhumanity in placing her where the great
work was invisible.

"Oh, Mr. Pelgram, you are really cruel!  Eleanor, don't you think he might have put me where
I could sit and look at that beautiful portrait, and not down here at the other end of the room?"

Miss Long, a tall girl with large liquid eyes and a weak red mouth, languidly murmured a sympathetic
assent, and their host smiled deprecatingly, but with an inward glow of satisfaction; such
a remark was obviously not inspired by the exact truth, but it was nevertheless pleasant to hear.

"Ah, Miss Heatherton," he replied, "perhaps after all it is better as I have ordered it.  For
its little hour the picture should reign with its sovereignty unquestioned, while if you were
near by--" he broke off meaningly, and Miss Long rewarded his compliment with a bovine glance
of rapture, while Miss Heatherton looked modestly down at the teapot.  Even to an unaesthetic
person the arrangement seemed very good indeed, but rather for the more practical reason that
the proximity of food and drink would very likely have distracted the attention of some of
the more hungry visitors to such a degree that the work of art might have been comparatively
ignored.

The next to arrive were Isabel Hurd and Wilkinson.  Wilkinson had not been invited, but on
hearing his cousin say that she was starting for the studio, he promptly announced that he
would accompany her.  He knew that Pelgram disliked him intensely, but he did not feel the
slightest hesitation on that account in accepting the artist's hospitality, and in fact quite
enjoyed the prospect of a dash into the enemy's country.  To be sure, he saw little chance
of loot except a trifling modification of his chronic afternoon hunger; but Isabel's society
was desirable, and Pelgram appealed vividly to his sense of the ludicrous.  His reception was
all he could have hoped; his host greeted him with outward affability, but when he extended
his hand from the black velvet cuff with the handkerchief tucked into it, his face expressed
the hidden anguish of anticipated ridicule to such a degree that Wilkinson felt his visit already
justified.

"It is very good of you to come," said the artist, with a forced smile. "I had no idea you
were interested in art."

"Oh, but I am, though," returned the other, confidently.  "I have no idea what it is, but I'm
very much interested in it.  And every one says I have the artistic temperament in the highest
degree.  By the way, what is art, anyway?  No one ever told me."

Pelgram gave a preliminary cough, and glanced hastily about the room, but calculating that
his audience would be larger later on, he restrained himself.

"What is art?" he slowly repeated, half-closing his eyes and smiling mystically on his guests.
"What is art?"  Miss Long hung breathlessly on his words.

As, however, he seemed more interested in the question than apt to reply to it, Wilkinson moved
on toward Miss Heatherton and the tea table, while his place was taken by Miss Maitland and
her mother, who had just come into the room.

The studio was presently quite full, and conversation rose to a shriller pitch.  The talk was
mostly of art.  Catch phrases indicative of informality and intimacy with the manufacture of
the beautiful were recklessly flung about.  The pace quickened.  The operations of Miss Heatherton
and Miss Long threatened speedily to be terminated because of exhausted resources as well as
insufficient space.  It was warmer, and there was a queer mixed odor of tea, roses, and paint.
John M. Hurd, greatly relieved after he discovered that he was not immediately expected to
buy anything, was recounting with animation to a fat man in a frock coat how the basis of the
family fortune had been laid by Mr. Hurd's grandfather whose one life rule was never to invest
his money in anything west of Albany, New York.  One of Pelgram's colleagues had pinned Miss
Maitland into a corner and was raptly telling her how great an influence a certain old master
of whom she had never heard had exerted on the work of an extraordinarily talented young man
from Fall River whose name and pictures alike were entirely unknown to her.

Pelgram went by with his arm familiarly passed through that of a phlegmatic-looking young Chinaman
whom he led up to Miss Maitland's portrait.  Ling Hop had been cook on a yacht, when an artistic
friend of Pelgram's and a parasite of the yacht's owner had discovered one day that the guardian
of the galley was a fair draughtsman with some little imagination; and much to his own surprise
the Oriental had been snatched from the cook stove and thrust into the artistic arena.  It
was lucky for him that his scene was set in Boston, which is always sympathetically on edge
to embrace exotic genius.  In a society delicately attuned to intellectual harmonies from all
sources, however strange or weird, the success of a Chinaman possessing the slightest facility
with the brush was assured from the first.  His industrious compatriots in the local laundries,
themselves more impassionate critics, doubtless regarded Ling Hop as an impudent charlatan;
but Boston in its most restricted and exclusive sense looked at his work with interest and
respect, though sadly without humor.  The guest stood silently before the portrait, scanning
it earnestly, almost with anxiety, blinking his almond eyes behind his shell-rimmed glasses.
As, however, he did not know enough about the technique of painting to offer a sensible appreciation,
he wisely confined himself to a very few vaguely eulogistic monosyllables, which seemed greatly
to gratify the artist.

"Ah," said Ling Hop, "delicate--delicate!" the adjective being pronounced with a haunting repetition
of its most melodious letter.  Years of more or less familiarity with the English language
had not been able to efface his racial penchant for the labial.  One might naturally suppose
that to compress a native alphabet of some one hundred and twenty-six letters into one of twenty-six
would result in much confusion and some inexplicable preferences, but no one has ever been
able to point out why the functions of the extra hundred should have to be assumed by the letter
"l" alone.

But to Pelgram the vague liquid sound fell dulcetly on the ear, and by Miss Long and Miss Heatherton
no flaw in this art criticism could be discerned.  And the artist, glancing about him, saw
with gratification that, in addition to the two young ladies, there had by some vague current
of motion been swept into his immediate vicinity human flotsam to the extent of perhaps half
a dozen irresponsible souls, ignorant that their immediate fate was to be not guests, but auditors.

"Do you feel that?  I strove for it," he said in a clear, penetrating voice, calculated to
attract the attention, if not the interest, of those even outside the charmed though widening
circle.  "I strove for just that, feeling that here, above all, it was the one desideratum.
At times I feared--" he turned to the impassive Mongolian a puckered forehead--"that I might
be sacrificing somewhat of the virile.  But no! I said--surely I can sacrifice all things,
all considerations, save one."

"You were right," said Ling Hop, cryptically, feeling that he was called upon to say something,
but still with that faint adumbration of the inevitable letter.

"In these days of strange, wild gods, in whose temples the heathen riot in flames and flares
and orgies of color, it seems to me incumbent upon the saner among the craft to cling perhaps
closer than ever to the great canons that the great masters have set forth for us.  What do
these new men worship?  Color--color--blobs and blotches of raw, crude color!  They think of
nothing else, these barbarians.  Let drawing, arrangement, construction even, go--they say--and
with bloodshot eyes they dance in one wild debauch of life and light!  It is not art!"

Casting an imperceptibly alert eye to right and left, Pelgram saw that he was now in possession
of the maximum audience he was likely to achieve. In a near-by corner, blockaded by three attentive
gentlemen who seemed much less interested in art than in nature, sat Miss Maitland, within
easy though obstructed earshot.  She could hardly help hearing, and with an inward sigh of
satisfaction the artist gave himself over utterly to the exordium which for some inexplicable
reason formed the nucleus of his idea of a properly conducted studio affair.  He felt that
he was going to be very eloquent, and he felt reasonably secure from interruption, for no one
in that company would have the temerity to question, on his own hearthstone, his pronunciamentos.
No one,--except perhaps the irrepressible Wilkinson,--and it was with the greatest relief that
he beheld Charlie safely out of hearing and engaged in rapt converse with Isabel.

"Yes, those of us who believe, who still hold the immortal things sacred, have a great trust
vested in us.  It is for us, the few still faithful, to keep the lustral fires pure from defilement
by the unbelievers.  What would the great draughtsmen of old, the great true colorists among
the masters, say if we should betray them to the wild, criminal vagaries of these falsest of
false prophets?"

He turned savagely upon Ling Hop, who replied, with entire truth, and with a certain feeling
for caution which showed that he could be trusted in any crisis:--

"Yes.  What?"

"They swarm with muddy feet through the safest, surest halls of art of all time.  They do not
hesitate to say that arrangement--arrangement!--is not a necessity in a work of art.  They
say construction is not vital. They care nothing of whether nature at the moment is right or
wrong--whether there is a combination of circumstances worthy of reproduction--but they throw
their pictures on the canvas in any way they chance to come.  And what pictures!  Raw, flaunting
things, with no care given to balance, none to line, none to color!  It would be unbelievable--if
it were not true."

Miss Heatherton, on whom his inspired gaze at this juncture rested, closed her eyes, as though
she feared to disturb even by a glance the continuity of this astonishing harangue.  At the
footstool of Olympus sat Miss Long, in patient ecstasy.

"These painters--anarchists of the craft, I call them--would force us to leave off painting
quiet interiors," continued Pelgram, lowering his voice with mournful impressiveness, "because,
forsooth, interiors are inane, undramatic things unless relieved by color!  Not our color,
but the bright, blazing color that roars and raves.  Still-lifes they condemn unless they swim
in seas of pure emotion.  For with them color is emotion, emotion color. . . .  To be sure,
we know better, but I repeat that a heavy charge is on us.  We must march loyally forward,
keeping our banners high.  We must go on painting a modest lady, dressed in dark blue, sitting
on a gray chair with a shiny wooden floor beneath her--to show that these things can sometimes
make an artistic harmony worthy of being translated for all time into a picture that shall
never die.  What if this has been done ten thousand times before?  The old gods are jealous
gods, and at the ten thousandth time they take their own at last."

"Yes.  At last," said Ling Hop, observing that a response was expected of him.

Pelgram turned to the portrait.

"And this!--portrait painting!--to which all the masters finally turn. What would they--these
colorists--make out of portrait painting?"

Evidently his mind recoiled from the thought, for he turned aside with a gesture of resignation.
And Miss Long and Miss Heatherton were never to know what horrid fate awaited portrait painting
at their hands, for from the rim of the circle came the cheerful voice of Wilkinson:--

"Money, old chap, money.  That's what they'd make out of portrait painting.  And after all,
that's the only satisfactory standard of success, established for every school of art--what
will the picture bring?  Now isn't that so?"

Pelgram's upper lip drew viciously back from his teeth; Wilkinson, pleasantly advancing, smiled
with content; the flotsam had floated away as noiselessly as youth; and the artist, collecting
his forces to reply, saw that, except for the two rapt sycophants at his elbow, he was alone.
He laughed a short laugh.

"With many, no doubt it is," he snapped.

His adversary continued his placid progress down the room until he reached the tea table, where
immediately he could be heard inquiring whether the diminutive "arrangements in green and white"
were intended for lettuce sandwiches.

Pelgram glanced quickly toward where Miss Maitland still sat, surrounded by her attentive friends.
It seemed hardly likely that she could have missed Charlie's distressing incursion into a monologue
to which he had not been invited, but the girl seemed so wholly occupied that the painter took
heart.  His ruffled self-esteem preened itself anew, and he moved circuitously toward the object
of his concern in as disinterested a manner as he could assume.  At the sight of their host,
the other members of Miss Maitland's group took occasion inconspicuously to drift away, being
moved either by hunger or by good nature or by fear lest the monologue recommence.  All but
one obtuse youth who neither stirred nor displayed any tendency so to do.

"Before you go I want to show you that full length of Mrs. Warburton," the artist suggested
pointedly to Helen.  Her only attitude was affable resignation; she accepted the inevitable
as gracefully as possible, and they strolled across the end of the studio to an alcove where
a number of canvases stood coyly awaiting beholders.  Several tall potted plants nearly hid
the alcove from the studio at large, and Pelgram noted with satisfaction that the remaining
guests were mostly grouped about Wilkinson at the other end.  He turned, to gain time for thought,
to the pile of frames in the corner, and presently pulled forth the portrait of which he had
spoken.

"Not so interesting an arrangement as I made of you," he commented.

"I might just as well have been a sandwich," was the girl's immediate thought, but she replied
politely, "No."

"I would certainly have been hopelessly lacking in talent of any sort if I had not been able
to do something really fine from the chance you offered me," he went on.

Feeling quite uncomfortable and not knowing exactly what to say to this, Helen said nothing.
The artist, assuming that her silence implied her permission for him to continue, cleared his
throat for what he felt should be a master effort.

"Miss Maitland," he said, regarding her gravely, "it is naturally not for me to say, but I
sincerely believe that your portrait is a work of real merit.  And whatever slight ability
I may possess has of course been freely spent on it.  But there is something else to consider--there
is ability, but there is also the element of inspiration, and whatever I may have lacked in
the one you have bountifully given me in the other.  If others should think the portrait a
success, I must thank not myself but you.  And beyond the success of the picture itself, which
at best can only be for a day, you have given me what no one ever gave me before--you must
know what that may be."

"You are entirely welcome, I'm sure," his visitor replied, in considerable embarrassment. 
It was not exactly what she meant to say, and the egotism of the artist immediately misconstrued
it.

"Helen," he said, "the painting of your portrait has been a perilous adventure for me.  Up
to the time I began it, I lived in a world alone, and I thought only of my art.  My model was
always a thing wholly subordinate; after the picture was completed I never cared whether I
ever saw the subject again.  But as you came here day after day, my art seemed of less importance,
and you came forward more and more.  And finally I have found that nothing matters--nothing
counts--but you."

Miss Maitland did not answer.  She was conscious only of wondering whether she were going to
be able to escape from that alcove before she had expressed to her host her actual opinion
of him and all his works, and she rather feared her powers of repression would prove unequal
to the occasion.  And her opinion of him was at its nadir.  With unerring maladroitness Pelgram
had chosen the time of all others when his star was burning with its feeblest flame.  She continued
to sit passively, while the waves of the artist's eloquence rolled over her.

"I will not ask you if you love me--it is enough to tell you that I love you more than all
the world.  But can you not give me one single word of hope?"

He paused expectantly.

Helen hesitated.  Still persisted the naughty longing to break forth and say her will, but
she knew it would be wrong.  After all, there had been in Pelgram's plea as much genuine sincerity
as there could be in anything of his, and she felt that her wish to be utterly candid was a
childish and unworthy one.

"Mr. Pelgram," she said at length, "if I should give you any hope, it would be unjust and unkind
to you, for I feel that I could never care for you in the way you wish me to.  I respect your
ability, but that is not enough.  Please do not speak of this again.  You are an artist, and
there ought to be for you enough in the world to keep you happy--even without me."

Pelgram grew a little pale.  To him, who had such difficulty in being real, this was very real.
And seeing it, the girl softened.

"I'm sorry," she said.  "I'm really more sorry than I can tell you."

And then she had cause for repentance, for the artist, with an effort, drew all his pride to
aid him.  And his proud mood was by no means his best.  The only redeeming feature of the valedictory
was that finally it was over.

Helen, looking a trifle jaded, walked homeward under the escort of Isabel and Wilkinson.  She
was quite silent, and Isabel, suspecting trouble, said little for her part.

Not so Charlie, who held forth fluently, with the exhilaration one feels on coming out of a
hot church and dashing off in a touring car.

"Well," he said, "certain unfriendly persons have studiously circulated the impression that
I am eligible for the Paresis Club--a chucklehead, in fact.  But you will have to admit that
I never give Private Views.  You must concede that I do not inflict on my friends my opinions
about crude color.  Why, there must be several hundred things I don't do!"

"Thank Heaven you don't!" remarked Miss Maitland.

CHAPTER VII

It was one minute before eleven when the card of Mr. Charles Wilkinson was borne gingerly,
by a large youth from South Framingham who served as door boy, into the presence of Mr. Hurd.
That gentleman, reading the bit of pasteboard with a grunt which might have been indicative
of any one of a dozen invidious sentiments, opened the proximate corner of his mouth.

"Send him in," came from the brief orifice.

A moment later Mr. Wilkinson stood in the presence of his prey.  Or perchance--but no, this
was to be Marengo, not Waterloo--and above all, not Moscow.  Something of this was in his eyes
when he lifted them to meet those of his distinguished relation.

"Are you at liberty for a few moments?" he soberly inquired.  He took care to delete every
vestige of animation from his tone and manner, and so radical a change did this effect that
his step-uncle blinked.  A man as keen as John M. Hurd could not be blind to a mutation so
great.  He looked Mr. Wilkinson over with more care than he had ever employed before, for he
recognized at once that this was no ordinary visit.

"I am as much at liberty as I am likely to be," he replied noncommittally.

His visitor wistfully and somewhat suggestively eyed a chair, but made no move to be seated.
He felt that, no matter how the interview was to close, punctiliousness should begin it.

"Be seated," said Mr. Hurd, briefly.

"I have come to see you, sir," his young relative began, feeling his way cautiously, "with
reference to a matter that I have never mentioned to you, although I have been studying it
for some time.  Perhaps you may be of the opinion that if it were of paramount importance I
could have presented it to you without a long preliminary investigation.  But each of us has
to work in his own way, and this affair was of a sort in which I had little or no previous
experience.  The result was that it has taken me a considerable time to formulate my idea,
and I want you to give it a fair opportunity to sink in, so to speak, before you reach any
decision."

With his curiosity somewhat stirred, his hearer grunted a qualified assent.

"I have, of course, fortified myself by the possession of facts,--actual facts, sir,--and without
them I should not have trespassed on your time, for I must tell you at once that my proposition
concerns itself with the fire insurance of the Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction Company."

The knowledge that this was probably the most perilous point in his passage would have caused
Wilkinson to hurry past with all possible speed, but his uncle interrupted him with a grim laugh.

"That need give you no concern, my young friend," he said curtly, "for the company does not
carry any insurance."

A trace of Mr. Wilkinson's normal impudence returned momentarily to his tone when he replied:--

"My dear sir, didn't I say that I had made a long preliminary investigation of this?  You can
scarcely hold my intelligence at so low a figure as to think that I didn't know that fact.
That's why I'm here--because I do know it."

It may have been the effect of the return to the normal in his step-nephew's tone, or it may
have been merely Mr. Hurd's business method, which expelled his next remark from sardonic lips.

"Then you need but one more fact to make your knowledge of the subject complete, and that I
will now give you.  Not only does my company carry no insurance, but it never intends or expects
to.  Is there anything else this morning?"

Charlie smiled calmly, unmoved.

"Now we are ready to begin, sir.  You have disbelieved in insurance so strongly and so long
that such a remark was exactly what I expected you to make.  In fact, I should have been not
only surprised, but positively embarrassed, had you not made it.  Now, I repeat, we are ready
to talk business.  And I have your promise to listen to my plan."

It did not occur to the magnate that he had made no such promise, until Wilkinson was well
launched; after that, he forgot about it.

"Did any one ever call to your attention, sir, the fact that the statistics show that the fire
losses on traction schedules in the Eastern states exceed the insurance premiums on those schedules
by nearly thirty-five per cent?"

Mr. Hurd shook his head shortly.

"I did not know it."

Wilkinson did not know it either, but it could not be disproved, and served excellently as
a gambit.

"And I am not interested in other traction companies' fires," added his uncle.

"No, of course not.  But the law of average works in the end.  Your properties are subject
to exactly the same conditions and hazards as others, and in the end the Massachusetts Light,
Heat, and Traction Company will incur more in losses than it would ever have to pay in premiums.
In the long run the average wins.  So far you have been surprisingly fortunate, and that is
another reason why you should begin now to insure.  The law of average is perfectly inexorable,
and every year of low losses brings you nearer the big losses that are bound to come.  You've
been gambling, and now is the time to play safe."

"Perhaps, my boy," Mr. Hurd replied with amusement, "you believe these things that you quote
so glibly.  Perhaps not.  Let us assume that you do.  Therefore let me ask you this: if the
insurance companies pay more losses than they get in premiums on traction schedules, why don't
they cut off this loss by ceasing to insure them?  Hey?"

"Oh, lots of them do," Wilkinson returned easily.  "A few of the others may have had a streak
of luck for a few years, just as you have had, but the rest take it all in the day's work,
think that the rates may go up on account of the bad record of the class and then it would
be an advantage to have the business on their books, or else they try to make it up on other
better paying classes.  And besides, they have the use of the money which is paid in premiums
during good years when losses are light."  Not for nothing had he listened to the painstaking
explanations of Cole, and whatever his eccentricities, Charlie had a native shrewdness hardly
second to that of old John M. himself. Perhaps the older man was thinking of this when he next
spoke.

"Then it has probably occurred to you that the Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction Company
can do the same thing--and does.  I use the interest and profits of my insurance fund which
I have accumulated by not paying premiums, to pay losses.  How about that?"

"That would be all right if your properties were widely enough distributed.  But they're not.
Some day you'll get a big loss, which will wipe out your interest, profits, and fund all together
for twenty years.  Your fund's all right for cars that burn on the road or for small fires;
but what if something big went?  And the insurance money would come in very nicely when you
most needed it.  You'd have trouble enough on your hands without having to go out and raise
money, too, if your new Pemberton Street barn should burn up with half a million dollars' worth
of cars in it--which it is quite possible it may do at almost any time."

"What!  The new barn?" said the magnate, incredulously.  "Why, my boy, that barn is the latest
thing in fireproof construction!  There isn't a stick of wood in that building from cellar
to attic."

"And the cars, are they fireproof, too?"

John M. Hurd looked up sharply.

"No," he said slowly.  "No, I don't suppose they are. . . .  Still, there's nothing to set
the cars afire.  They're safe enough in that building.  Nothing can happen to them there."

"The building itself is not located on a desert island in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean,"
said his nephew, thoughtfully.  "It might be exposed to a serious fire in some of the neighboring
buildings--that big paper-box factory, for example, across the alley to the south. There might,
in fact,"--he paused--"there might be a general fire in that part of Boston."

"A conflagration, you mean?  Nonsense!  Boston is safe as a church."

"Probably safer than St. Stephen's, out in Cambridge, that burned to the ground last week,"
returned his visitor, with a smile.

"To be sure," said Mr. Hurd, hastily.  "But there'll never be a big, sweeping fire in Boston."

"Why not?  There was one once."

"Forty years ago.  That's no criterion.  Things are very different now. This is a modern city
we're talking about--half the buildings down town are fireproof or nearly so.  Modern cities
don't burn the way older ones did."

"Baltimore did, as you may recall; also San Francisco.  And they were modern--as modern as
Boston.  There are people--not Bostonians, of course--who would consider them more so."

"Come now, do you mean to tell me any one honestly believes there is any danger of another
really big fire here?" rejoined Mr. Hurd, almost contemptuously; but under the surface Charlie
believed that his attitude of contempt was more or less assumed.  He believed he had made a
distinct impression, and it was therefore almost with a gambler's instinct that he brought
forth his trump card.

"I tell you, sir," he said, with all the impressiveness he could command, "that the best technical
engineers--not alarmists, but men who are careful students of such things--agree that the danger
here is as great as in any of the big cities of the United States.  The conflagration hazard
in the congested district of Boston is not a thing one can exactly calculate, but it would
be difficult to overestimate its gravity."

Mr. Hurd regarded him with amazement.

"Would you mind repeating that?" he asked at length.

"Certainly not, since I know it to be true.

The traction magnate walked slowly to the window, and looked out.  On the sunny pavements below
him people were going back and forth on their various concerns.  Around the corner came the
familiar delivery wagon of a well-known dealer in wholesale groceries.  Somehow the sight of
these common things restored to Mr. Hurd his ordinary tranquillity of mind, which he now saw
had been disturbed by the astonishing utterances of his plausible young relation.  He smiled
rather grimly when he thought of how near he had come to being impressed by what Charlie had
said.  Of course, there could be nothing in it; certainly not, from such a source.  It was
the old John M. Hurd who turned again to face his visitor, who with but one card left to play
awaited breathlessly but with outward nonchalance the effect of his cherished speech.

"Well, I've enjoyed talking this over with you, Charlie," the older man said with candor. 
"There's something in what you say, too.  Perhaps our insurance fund isn't as large as it ought
to be.  But I couldn't consider carrying insurance for the Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction
Company.  And why are you so interested in this, all of a sudden, anyway?"

"Partly philanthropic and partly mercenary," said his nephew, easily. "Philanthropic, because
I would like to do something of real benefit to the most distinguished member of my family--who
least needs my assistance; mercenary, because I need the money.  I rather expect you to let
me have charge of the placing of this insurance, sir."

"Well, Charlie, I don't mind saying that you've made a better impression than any of these
other insurance men that occasionally get into my office, and if I were going to take out insurance
on the traction properties, I believe I'd let you make your commission on it. But I'm not.
And now I must ask you to excuse me."

"Oh, I've not quite finished," returned Wilkinson.  As he was in for it now, he would see it
through.  "I think you're making a mistake, sir; and there are still one or two aspects of
the matter which you have not considered."

"And what may they be?" inquired his uncle.  "Please remember I'm a busy man."

His visitor reflected briefly.  He did not know whether to play his last card slowly and carefully
or to slam it face upward with enough force to make the table rattle.  He decided on the latter
method; after all, to succeed with John M. Hurd one did well to make him blink.

"There is such an institution as the Stock Exchange," he said blandly.

Mr. Hurd looked at him.

"Massachusetts Traction has been considered a very substantial security," Wilkinson went on,
"so safe that its market value fluctuates very little, and so well regarded that the banks
generally accept its stock as collateral at very nearly its market value.  They accept it as
a matter of course because they know its dividends are fully earned and paid regularly, and
they have confidence in your management and don't go into the details.  Your company has no
bonded indebtedness; the bonds were all converted into stock years ago; if it was bonded, the
bondholders would compel you to insure, whether you wished to or not. Perhaps the banks have
forgotten that you are not forced to carry insurance, and are taking it for granted that you
are exercising ordinary prudence along this line and insuring just the same. Suppose--only
suppose--the intelligence should become diffused among certain gentlemen of State Street that
you are likely to lose three quarters of a million dollars by fire if your new Pemberton Street
car barn should go and the power house adjoining it be seriously damaged, and to meet such
a loss you had an insurance fund of thirty thousand dollars.  Do you suppose your stock would
be quite so popular as collateral as it is now?"

He paused for a reply, but none came.

"Of course none of the directors of the company ever borrow money on that stock. . . .  Need
I say more, sir?"

It was evident that there was no need.  If there were any of the directors who did not borrow
money on the stock, Mr. Hurd could not think of them offhand.  Once more he walked to the window,
and this time he looked long and thoughtfully out over the level roofs.

"Your point is not badly taken.  And in one thing you are probably right--State Street, if
left to itself, would never raise the question," he said, half to himself.  But Wilkinson's
reply was ready and obvious.

"There are so many thoughtless people," he said softly.  "One never can tell when such news
might leak out."

His uncle surveyed him sternly.  But Charlie's cryptic gaze met his uncle's, undisturbed.

"Some one might tell," he gently observed, and said no more.

It was some time before Mr. Hurd raised a thoughtful yet somewhat amused face to that of his
caller.

"I'll consider the matter," he said tersely.

"I thank you, sir," replied Charles, with graceful humility, which he dared assume since his
case seemed won.  And a moment later South Framingham's one time pride watched his exit through
the grille gate into the descending elevator.

As Wilkinson started blithely across the Common, he caught sight of a familiar figure advancing
along one of the diagonal paths.  He quickened his already jocund step to meet Miss Maitland
at the intersection of their ways.

"Whither away so briskly this hungry noon?" he inquired with enthusiasm.  "If it were not for
the fact that I am in search of some one to ask me to luncheon, I would ask you to come and
lunch with me."

"Then if I were really quite hungry, which I am after an hour in this autumn air, I should
decline your gallant invitation with regret, and say that I am on my way to lunch with Uncle
Silas at the Club."

Charlie was on the point of telling her his news--but changed his intent.  After all, his were
incubator chickens at best, and perhaps it would be wiser to postpone a public enumeration
of them.  So he merely replied, "I trust you will have a pleasant luncheon."

"The same to you, and many of them--consecutively," replied the girl, with a laugh.

"Now, that's what I call a friendly speech," rejoined her escort, and the two went their separate
ways.

At the club whose billiard players have the almost unique privilege between masse shots of
regarding at close range the tombstones of an aristocratic cemetery, Helen and her uncle were
comfortably lingering over their demi-tasses before Mr. Osgood's guest gave speech to the thoughts
within her.

"You are a dear to give me this luncheon," she began.

The old gentleman bowed a courtly head.

"I have been envied, I think, by all my more youthful fellow members here," he said.  "And
that is very pleasant, even when one might be supposed to have passed the age of vanity."

"Thank you, Uncle Silas.  No one of your fellow members could have said a nicer thing than
that."  She fingered her coffee cup.  "But I had a reason for inviting myself--practically--to
lunch with you.  I want to ask your advice."

"I'm afraid I should be inclined in advance to let you do exactly as you liked, my child,"
said the other, with a smile.  "But what is it? I hope it's not trouble of any sort."

"No--it's not trouble, exactly," his niece responded.  "It's more like--well, like dissatisfaction.
I am awfully tired of being a perfectly useless person, with no definite end and aim.  You
don't suppose it's because I see every day the girls coming down to work, on the Massachusetts
Avenue cars, do you?  I went a little while ago to my doctor's because I thought perhaps there
was something the matter with me, and he suggested a change of air, but I think he mixed up
the cause with the effect.  Perhaps I do need a change, but it's a change of interests and
a change of what I see and hear and talk about."

"Commonly termed a vacation," said Mr. Osgood.

"Yes, a vacation--that's it.  Not a vacation from doing anything, because I've done nothing,
but a vacation from the atmosphere I've been living in."

"You mean the artistic atmosphere?" her uncle asked.  "You are a little tired of--"

"I'm more than a little--I'm horribly tired of imitations and poses and make-believes.  I want
to see things and people who really live, who don't exist by the light of crimson-shaded globes
and spend their days dreaming about impressions and arrangements and tones and shadows."

Helen wound up this diminutive tirade with quite a little flourish, and Mr. Osgood looked thoughtfully
across the table at her.

"Why don't you run down to New York?" he suggested.  "I'm sure your Aunt Mary Wardrop would
be delighted to have you come for a visit."

"Yes.  I thought of that.  I should like to go there, and I had almost decided to.  But can't
you suggest something for me to do?  Aunt Mary's principal occupation is abusing the nouveaux
riches, and one merely has to agree with her, which is not at all difficult.  If I had anything
to do here, I'd rather stay than go.  Of course New York is quite a change from Boston--there
can be no doubt about that. But--don't you see what I mean, Uncle Silas?"

"I think I do--somewhat, my dear.  You are a little restless, and you think that because the
things you do are small they are less real. That is not so--small things can be made very interesting
if one does them with enthusiasm.  Take my own business, for example.  It is possibly just
a 'business' to you, like any other, but that is because you have not seen it from the inside.
To me it is absolutely vital.  I don't know of another business so interesting."

"Really!" the girl answered.  "I thought it was just getting people to buy insurance policies,
very much as you would have gotten them to buy sugar if you had been in the grocery business.
If it's so interesting, why couldn't I come down to your office and learn about it?  I'm sure
I could be of some use--I'm quite quick at figures."

"I fear you'd be disappointed," said Mr. Osgood.  "I'm afraid I must admit that adding up columns
of figures is very much the same in one business as in another.  And as I said, to find the
real interest you should see a business from the inside.  My office is not the inside--it's
only part way in.  The real inside, the center of the web, is the home office of some big company.
I'm only a local agent, you understand; you would only see one phase of the business in my
office. But if you went to New York, I could arrange that you might visit the home office of
one of the New York companies, if you would like."

"I think I would," said Miss Maitland.

"Then I will give you a letter to Mr. James Wintermuth, one of my oldest and closest friends
and the head of the Guardian Fire Insurance Company of New York.  And some morning, if you
find time hanging heavy on your hands, you can go down to William Street.  And if you don't
arrive before ten o'clock, I think Mr. Wintermuth will be pleased to show you something real--and
something which has not a purple shadow in its possession."

"Then you really think it would be a good thing for me to go to New York?" his niece asked.

"Decidedly.  I'd write your aunt to-day, if I were you.  Now that she has your portrait, she
would probably like a chance to compare it with the original."

"On the contrary, she may think, that having so recent a copy, the original would be superfluous."

"I fancy I'd risk it," her uncle returned, with a smile, as they rose from the table.

And so it was arranged.  Helen's mother entered her expected protest, and was promptly overruled.
Trunks were packed and letters were written; among them one by Silas Osgood to James Wintermuth.
And at length, as September was drawing to a close, Miss Maitland boarded the Knickerbocker
Limited one day, and the town of her nativity was speedily left behind her.

On the very afternoon of her departure the office of the Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction
Company was the scene of an unusual, and, to most of the participants, a disquieting conference.
The shimmering face of the big, dark, mahogany table reflected many a perplexed expression,
and its substantial supports found their impeccable varnish menaced by a number of restless
and uneasy boots.  The directors of the company, assembled for their monthly meeting, found
that, instead of the customary conventionality of procedure, a thing strangely impertinent
and unexpected demanded their surprised attention.

Ordinarily these meetings were simple in the extreme, being merely ratifications of what the
President had done and approvals of what he said he purposed to do.  To the somewhat bored
group of representative financial figureheads around the table Mr. Hurd would read a sheet
of figures telling how many million miles the company had carried one passenger during the
previous month--such reports are always reduced to absurdities--and would inform them of such
plans as he chose to intrust to their confidence, and would then suggest the declaration of
the usual dividend.  To this the directors would unanimously assent.  Then they punctiliously
received each man his golden eagle, and a motion to adjourn closed the ceremony.

To-day had come an astonishing innovation in procedure.  Instead of suavely instructing them
what they should vote to do, Mr. Hurd was behaving in a most oddly uncharacteristic fashion.
He was asking their advice.  This amounted to a bouleversement suprême of the usual order of
things, and it was no wonder that there was disquietude among his hearers.

"It has been represented to me," he had tersely said, "that if a large fire should involve
our Pemberton Street barn and power house, notwithstanding the presumably fireproof construction
of those buildings, we should quite likely incur a much larger loss than we would find it convenient
to pay at a time when additional financing might be somewhat embarrassing.  I am therefore
laying before you gentlemen the question of doing what we have never previously done, and carrying
fire insurance on our properties.  I prefer not to advise you, and suggest an open discussion
of the matter."

Mr. Hurd sat down; his directors surveyed one another and the situation with concern.  Could
the old man be losing his grip, or was this merely a transient eccentricity?  In the debate
which followed the President took no part; only once, in answer to a question by Mr. Jonas
Green, much the most penurious man at the table, as to what had brought the question up at
the present time, Mr. Green being an enthusiastic exponent of the doctrine of laissez faire
when any additional expenditure was proposed, Mr. Hurd made reply:--

"It is represented to me that if it became public knowledge that we carry no insurance, banking
and financial institutions generally may come to feel that our conservatism is open to criticism
and that they are rating our stock somewhat too highly as collateral.  It is intimated that
some of us might conceivably be annoyed by requests to substitute in part other collateral
or somewhat reduce loans secured by Massachusetts Traction stock."

"But so far as the banks are concerned, we're in exactly the same position we've always been.
How is the fact we don't insure going to become public knowledge now any more than in the past?"
persisted Mr. Green.

"It is suggested that news spreads--if not of its own volatility, at least with only the most
trifling assistance.  And that, I take it," concluded Mr. Hurd, "will be supplied."

Mr. Green's face grew almost purple.

"Why!" he exclaimed, "that's--that's pretty close to blackmail!"

The President's lips half concealed the merest trace of a smile.

"Possibly," he assented.  "But I am inclined to think it is business."

The controversy continued.  And Mr. Hurd, listening, found himself more and more moved to austere
amusement by the effect of Charlie's suave proposal.  When he had placed the matter before
the directorate, it was because he himself had not made up his mind on the question of its
desirability.  He had slowly come to feel that his personal prejudice against carrying insurance
should not be made forcibly to apply to the policy of a corporation, in which many others were
interested, and he felt that he would prefer to shift the responsibility on this point to the
gentlemen who presumably were paid for deciding just such things. And as he listened, he found
growing upon him the hope that Charlie's plan would be adopted.  This hope, unexpressed, was
so utterly out of keeping with what he had supposed to be his convictions that he strangled
it without a qualm.  It was, he supposed, dead, when he sat up at the further request of Mr.
Jonas Green to answer a few additional queries.

"Tell me," said Mr. Green, "do you honestly believe there's a particle of danger of a big fire
in this city?  Pooh!"  He dismissed the subject almost contemptuously.

Some odd chord of recollection stirred in Mr. Hurd.

The sounding syllables passed from his lips with a faint, far echo which he found vaguely but
unidentifiably familiar.  But into the group around the long table the utterance fell with
cryptic, crucial solemnity.  Only Mr. Green, stubbornly contentious to the last, and thinking
anxiously of both horns of the dilemma at once, found voice or will to reply.

"You don't say so!" he said feebly.

"I do," Mr. Hurd coolly rejoined.  "And now, gentlemen, the motion is in order: Shall the Massachusetts
Light, Heat, and Traction Company insure its properties against loss by fire?"

And when the motion was put, there was no dissenting voice.

Of this somewhat unprecedented meeting the close at least was normal. But Mr. Jonas Green grasped
his ten dollar gold piece more firmly than ever as he passed through the doorway.

CHAPTER VIII

One of the most inexplicable things in human nature is, commonly, the stuff out of which other
people carve their fetiches.  A philosopher is a man who can understand the incomprehensible
selections by other men of the objects of their adoration.  But philosophers are uncommon.

To Helen Maitland, leaving Fifth Avenue at Fifty-ninth Street and straying northwestward into
the early autumn splendor of the Park, it seemed as though for the first time she could understand
the viewpoint of those unidentified myriads to whom New York is a fetich; and as she walked
on beneath the trees soon to lay aside their valedictory robes, she appreciated most fully
those to whom Central Park is a fetich within a fetich, a guarded flame within the inmost chamber
of the shrine.

Partly the spell was that of Autumn, that grave, melodious season; and as Helen went forward,
her mind lingered on the "tragic splendor" at whose "mute signal, leaf by golden leaf, crumbles
the gorgeous year."

In the past she had never been inordinately fond of New York.  In common with most of her fellow
Bostonians, she had found it too big, too noisy, too garish, and too unfriendly.  To her it
was iron and stone and dust and the tumult of a harsh and heartless unceasing struggle.  But
now, under the alchemic hand of Autumn, she found herself thrilling to the town as never before
had she thought possible.  Only two days had elapsed since her departure from Boston, but it
seemed to her now that she was a participant in some slow-moving pageant, not a hostile critic
in the audience, but a minor actor in an unfamiliar yet strangely familiar play. Even the hurrying
throng of people who confronted her, when at length she sought again the street on her way
homeward, seemed less hostile and alien, less inimical to her and her mood than ever before.
As she went southward on the street car--for her careful New Englandism forbade her taking
a taxicab in sunny weather--she found herself reflecting with a smile that Boston in her recollection
was an astonishing distance away. She also detected with surprise a very slight irritation
at the intense preoccupation of the thronging thousands in their own concerns and their utter
carelessness of her and hers.

As a matter of fact she had no concerns of her own, or at least none whose vitality would gain
attention.  And suddenly her friendly sense of being a part of this flowing life dissolved
sourly into mockery.  She was in it and not of it--again the hostile critic.  And then it occurred
to her that perhaps momentarily she was a little lonely.  And her utter impotence in this huge
careless city heightened this feeling.  She could make no headway against the current of this
life.  The remarkable persistent vitality of the thing around her made her feel totally unimportant
and quite helpless.  The feeling was far from pleasant, but it was salutary, and stimulus for
the first remedy at hand, and the natural depression of impotence did not overcome the exhilaration
of curiosity.

When she reached Washington Square again, she said something of this to Miss Wardrop, who nodded
comprehendingly.

"Every one feels that way for a time," she said; "it's like sitting out a cotillion by one's
self.  What you need is something or somebody to pull you into the whirl."

"I suppose that is so," agreed the girl,--"but where am I to find it--or him?  I don't know
anybody who is in.  Of course I have Uncle Silas's letter to Mr. Wintermuth, but I didn't really
know whether I'd have the courage to use it or not."

"Who may Mr. Wintermuth be?" demanded her aunt.

"A friend of Uncle Silas, and the President of the Guardian Fire Insurance Company."

"Fire Insurance?  A fire insurance company?  Wait one moment. Jenks. . . .  Jenks!  Bring me
that envelope from the mantelpiece. . . . No," she added, "my policy is not in the Guardian.
I thought perhaps it might be."

"What is the matter?" inquired her niece.  "Have you had a fire?"

"Yes, I have," returned her aunt, "or rather Jenks has.  He burned off the lamp shade from
my reading lamp.  And Jane Vanderdecken says because he did it out of sheer clumsiness I cannot
ask the company to pay for it."

Helen remembered the shade in question, which had been in the eyes of all save its owner a
horror upon horrors, a mausoleum preserving, apparently for all time, the ghastly glories of
a dead era of alleged ornamentation. So it was with dubious sympathy that she said:--

"I don't know whether Jane Vanderdecken is right or not."

"You can go and find out.  Mr. What's-his-name can tell you, even if it isn't his company that
will have to pay."

And in this way it came about that Helen found herself, not many days later, descending from
the Elevated Station at Cortlandt Street, and turning her steps eastward toward William Street.
It was half-past ten when she found herself before a portal on which were the words: The Guardian
Fire Insurance Company of the City of New York.

Intrusting herself to the deliberate conveyance of the elevator, she arrived eventually at
the top floor, and to a clerk near the door she expressed her desire to see Mr. James Wintermuth.
One of the principal assets of this employee was his readiness to assume an expression, when
any one inquired for the President, suggestive that in his opinion such a desire could scarcely
be expected by the visitor to be gratified, and he was also supposed to decide by inquiry or
intuition whether he should so far intrude on Mr. Wintermuth's privacy as to present the stranger's
name.  He had come to be uncommonly adept at this, but the spectacle of this dark-eyed young
woman was quite beyond the gamut of his routine experience.  In a sort of charmed coma he surveyed
the visitor, and found himself starting to inform the President of her arrival without a preliminary
inquisition even to the extent of inquiring the nature of her business with that gentleman.
Accordingly, after the briefest of intervals she found herself ushered into the office of an
elderly gentleman who rose courteously to welcome her.

"Miss Maitland, I think.  You are the niece of Silas Osgood of Boston?" he inquired.  "Mr.
Osgood wrote that I might expect to see you here."

The girl handed him the letter.

"Here are my credentials," she said, with a smile.  "I am also an envoy extraordinary from
my aunt, Miss Wardrop, on a diplomatic mission connected with the burning of a long-cherished
but doubtfully valuable lamp shade!"

"Won't you sit down, please?  You will pardon me if I read your uncle's letter?" Mr. Wintermuth
responded.

Helen assented, and the other leisurely read the few lines the letter contained.  In the interim
the visitor glanced about the room to apprehend the setting of the scene into which she was
now come. Presently her host spoke.

"I gather from what your uncle says that you have come not to call on an old friend of his,
but to look at maps and daily reports and surveys, and find out what a fire insurance company
is really like.  And although I am quite old enough to be your father, I would really much
rather you had come to see me," he remarked pleasantly.

"If I had known you before, I undoubtedly would have done so," the girl smilingly returned.

"Times have changed since I was a youngster," Mr. Wintermuth went on.  "I presume all elderly
people say so, and I am afraid we are apt to make it at once a refrain and a lament, but nevertheless
it is true.  Forty years ago young ladies did not feel any interest in business such as fire
insurance, or if they did they kept it to themselves.  But," he added, "I am the gainer in
this work of time, to-day at least, for it brings me the pleasure of a call from you."

"I'm afraid my interest is rather sudden and hasn't any very deep foundation," his visitor
admitted.  "I haven't felt it very long.  Uncle Silas has been a fire insurance man ever since
I can remember, but I never knew what he was actually doing, and I never tried to learn.  But
now I really would like to find out, and that is what brings me to you. I have lived in a kind
of unreal atmosphere, and I'm trying now to learn about something absolutely practical.  I
hope it won't bore you too awfully to have things shown to some one who will undoubtedly have
to ask the meaning of everything she sees."

"Not in the least," the old gentleman assured her.  "I shall give you an instructor who likes
to explain things."  He pressed a button under his desk.  "Ask Mr. Smith to come here," he
said to the boy who responded.

"Yes, sir.  Excuse me, sir, but Mr. O'Connor is going to Baltimore and he says he'd like to
see you a minute before he goes."

"Ask him to come in.  Miss Maitland, let me present Mr. O'Connor, our Vice-President.  Miss
Maitland is the niece of Mr. Silas Osgood, and she has come to look over our offices."

"Very pleased to meet you," said O'Connor.  "Sorry I haven't time to help show you around,
myself.  I see now that I was wrong when I decided to go to Baltimore to-day.  I felt a little
doubtful right along, and now I'm sure I should have stayed here."

Helen thought that he spoke a trifle too glibly, but she made a civil reply, and turned to
the window while O'Connor received some final advice from his chief.  When the door closed
behind him she turned once more, and as she did so she became aware of a young man who stood
in the doorway looking expectantly at Mr. Wintermuth.

"Ah, you are here, Richard," said the President.  "Miss Maitland, this is Mr. Smith.  Miss
Maitland is Mr. Silas Osgood's niece, and she wants to know how the Guardian runs its business.
Do you think you can show her?"

"I think I can," replied the younger man, pleasantly.  Then, turning to the girl, he said,
"I shall at least be very glad indeed to try."

Mr. Wintermuth then went on to tell what Smith should show the visitor, and while he was doing
this the two younger people looked at one another, Helen swiftly and Smith with a steadier
glance.  To him she seemed a girl of unusual charm, but whether this could have been guessed
from his manner was problematic.

Helen, with discreet but none the less comprehensive scrutiny, saw before her a man of thirty-three
or four years, erect of figure, with a clean-shaven face and gray eyes.  One thing she noticed
about him was a certain odd immobility of carriage, which was not in any way to be mistaken
for lassitude or lethargy; on the contrary, it reminded her of a coiled spring.  He was somewhat
above the middle height, and he had rather lean hands, and he wore no jewelry except an unobtrusive
scarf pin--thus far had Helen's assessment proceeded when a question from Mr. Wintermuth recalled
her.

"Would you like to start now to look us over?"

"If it is quite convenient to you," replied the girl, a shade stiffly. This impassive young
man, who seemed quite different from any one she had met in her Boston set, was a little out
of her calculations.  She knew it was unreasonable to expect Mr. Wintermuth himself to act
as cicerone, but just the same she was not entirely certain that she did not resent being so
definitely turned over to this youthfully unexpected substitute. Probably Mr. Otto Bartels
would have been initially more acceptable to her.

"Show Miss Maitland everything--begin at the beginning, and don't leave anything out," said
the President, and dismissed them both with a fatherly wave of the hand as he pressed the button
that summoned his stenographer.

Smith looked keenly at the girl as they walked slowly out into the office; he was wondering
what her object might be in this pilgrimage. His mind flitted briefly over the ideas of muck-raking
reporters and inquisitive lady novelists; yet surely this self-possessed but quiet young lady
suggested nothing of either class, and besides, a niece of Silas Osgood's could scarcely deserve
suspicion.  At the same time, detecting in her manner what impressed him as a slightly Bostonian
attitude of mental hauteur, Smith remained wary.

"This is the Eastern Department," he said, stopping before the first long map desk that stretched
along the whole side of the room.  Helen assented politely to this information, and the young
man led the way through the other departments.  Through the lower floors they went, Smith sketching
briefly the function of each department as they passed it.

"Here is the City Department," he said, as they reached the ground floor; and for a little
while they stood and watched Cuyler in his traffic with the brokers.  He was engaged in a spirited
argument with a very small and somewhat soiled person who insistently thrust upon Mr. Cuyler
what that gentleman had obviously no intention of accepting.  Risk after risk was declined,
and the turns and ripostes were fast and furious.

Finally the soiled placer presented a binder which called for five thousand dollars to cover
Jacob Warbalowsky on his stock of artificial flowers and feathers while contained on the fourth
loft of a six-story factory building which Mr. Cuyler knew to be of cheap and light construction,
dirty and hazardous throughout, and each floor but one of which was tenanted by a concern whose
name indicated that its pyromorality, so to speak, was to say the least questionable.  Mr.
Cuyler quite distinctly recalled, scanning the names of the tenants in the card cabinet which
gave the occupation and tariff rate of each, that a few years before, the concern on the third
floor, having manufactured a stock of raincoats which it found impossible to sell, had been
strongly suspected of disposing of its goods to the fire insurance companies instead of to
the retail trade by the simple expedient of the double gas jet.  This popular device was as
follows.  The proprietor, who was detained at his office after his employees had gone home,
would, when he himself departed, leave two gas jets turned on, one at each end of the factory,
one burning (as usual) and the other unlit.  Long enough afterward so as to establish an alibi
and remove all suspicion from himself, the escaping gas would meet the flame, and there would
be an explosion and a fire which usually resulted in the desired destruction of the useless
but fully insured merchandise.  The cause of the fire could almost always be traced to a leaky
gas jet, for which, of course, the assured was not responsible.

Mr. Cuyler, regarding the names of the tenants, noticed that the top floor was occupied by
a maker of automobile accessories, named Pendleton. He turned cheerfully back to the placer.

"Phil, I'd like to help you out," he said, "but I can't write anything in that building.  I
know it's hard to get.  Why, my brother-in-law's factory is on the top floor, and only last
Sunday, when I saw him up at the house, he asked me if I wasn't going to loosen up and put
the Guardian on for a small line.  His broker can't get anywhere near enough to cover him.
And I had to tell him nay, nay.  You couldn't really expect me to do something for you, Phil,
that I couldn't do for one of my own family."

The soiled placer removed a cigarette butt from his mouth, and threw it on the floor with a
gesture of extreme impatience.

"Your brother-in-law like hell!" he remarked, quite disregarding the presence of Miss Maitland
in the background.  "What kind of a fairy story are you trying to put across on me?  I suppose
you're claiming that Pendleton, the automobile man, is your brother-in-law.  Well, he moved
out about a month ago.  The card hasn't been changed yet, but the firm in there now is a bunch
of Kikes that make boys' pants--Lipper, Loeb, and Kahn.  I saw their sign when I went up to
get this order from Warbalowsky.  Which of them did your sister marry?"

Mr. Cuyler was momentarily discomfited, but his presence of mind almost immediately returned.

"All three," he said calmly to his excited adversary.  "All three.  You just saw the sign,
you say.  You didn't meet any of them personally, did you?  Well, you couldn't have."

"Why, what do you mean?" asked the astonished placer, pausing in the act of lighting a fresh
cigarette.

"Why, Phil," said Mr. Cuyler, kindly, "my sister married a man named Reginald Whitney.  His
name isn't his fault.  And he is a manufacturer of boys' pants.  Now, Phil, you understand
local conditions as well as nearly any one I know, and I ask you: What chance of success would
a boys' pants manufacturer named Reginald Whitney have?  Absolutely none. He therefore operates
under the name of Lipper, Loeb, and Kahn, and I don't mind saying he is doing very well, but
I hope he won't stay long in that building, for some of that bunch of crooks under him--I don't
mean Warbalowsky, you understand--will probably touch off the place some night and leave him
with a total loss and only forty per cent insurance to value."

While this controversy was going on, Smith, watching his companion shrewdly, saw the light
of real interest for the first time dawn in her eye.  And when Cuyler finished, she laughed
outright, and the two returned to the elevator the better for one shared amusement.

"I suppose Mr. Cuyler was--embroidering the truth a little?" queried Helen, comprehendingly.

"He never had a sister in his life!" nodded her escort, cheerfully.

"I'm afraid, Mr. Smith," Helen said as they regained the top floor, "that I don't really understand
the first principles of fire insurance well enough to appreciate what you have shown me.  It's
a humiliating admission, but I must make it.  I don't believe you began near enough the bottom--with
the elementary, one-syllable things."

The underwriter surveyed her thoughtfully but with covert approval.  Wary though he was, like
all idealists, regarding the things near to his soul, it now for the first time struck him
that he wished very much that Miss Maitland should understand what meant so much to him.  And
he felt that he could make her understand; hitherto it had not seemed so.

"I wonder if I could really show you," he answered, half to himself, and there was something
in his tone that made the girl reply, "I wish you would try."

"Let's start all over, then," said Smith, buoyantly.  "We'll begin right here.  Now, this is
a map desk in which the maps are kept and on top of which they are laid out when in use.  The
map desk is really the home of underwriting, just as the stage is of the drama.  And just as
there are stage conventions, certain things which are taken for granted, such as the idea that
a character on the stage cannot escape over the footlights into the audience--that there is
an imaginary blank wall between the audience and the players--so we have our conventions and
symbols in the maps."  He called for Boston One, which the map clerk laid instantly open at
his elbow.  It was a large volume bound in gray canvas, perhaps two by three feet in dimensions,
and weighing several pounds.  Smith turned to a page which showed some of the blocks surrounding
the Common, and Miss Maitland bent close to look.  "All these little colored objects represent
buildings, red for brick and yellow for frame; and they are drawn on a scale of fifty feet
to the inch.  We get so accustomed to them that automatically we grow to visualize the buildings
themselves from these diagrams.  See, there is the State House on top of the hill; there's
Beacon Street; there's--"

"Beacon Street!  Where is number forty-five?  I want to see what that looks like."

"What number did you say?" inquired Smith.

"Forty-five."

"There it is."

"Why, so it is!  What is that queer little wiggle sticking out of the front?"

"It looks like a bay window in the front room of the second floor.  Is there one in that house?"

"Yes. . . .  Have you got Deerfield Street in this map?"

Smith found the place.

"Number?" he asked again.

"Here it is," the girl said amusedly.  "That is where I live.  Now let me see how much visualizing
you can do on that.  Let me see how nearly right you can get it.  And why is it brown instead
of red?"

"With pleasure," said the underwriter, with a smile.  "In the first place, it is brown because
it is of steel and concrete fireproof construction.  It is an eight-story and basement apartment
building with a tile roof and a short mansard of tile in front only.  There are two sections,
cut off from one another except for a metal-clad door in the basement.  The elevator is at
the right as you enter; the stairway runs around it.  There are two light courts, one front
and one rear, both with stairway fire escapes.  Which is your apartment?"

"West front, on the fourth floor."

"You have probably seven rooms, with four windows along the street side and four on the court.
Well," he finished, laughing, "is that sufficiently visualized?"

"You have told me nearly everything except where we have our piano," Helen returned.  "I don't
suppose your diagram would show that?"

"Well, no.  That wouldn't interest us as a rule, and besides, people move pianos so often.
We don't try to keep them all located."

Smiling together, and better friends than they had yet been, the two turned from the map of Boston.

"Here," said Smith, "are the other maps of the Eastern Department, from Maine to Maryland,
Rhode Island to Ohio.  Also Canada--Halifax, Quebec, Montreal.  Over at the other end of the
room are the Southern cities, Atlanta, New Orleans, St. Augustine--with some of the old Spanish
houses still standing.  Do you know it strikes me there is something Homeric, something epic,
about a map desk.  You can turn to any building in any city on the continent, at a moment's
notice.  I can show you the Old South Church, or Fraunce's Tavern in New York where Washington
bade his generals good-by, or Montcalm's headquarters at Quebec before Wolfe scaled the heights.
Or you can see the Peace Conference Hotel outside Portsmouth, or the Congressional Library
in Washington, or the new Chinatown in San Francisco, or the great shops of the Pennsylvania
Railroad at Altoona, or even the site of the arena at Reno, Nevada, where Mr. Johnson separated
Mr. Jeffries from the heavy-weight title of the world."

So engrossed was Smith that he did not notice the almost imperceptible withdrawal of his auditor.
Among her Boston friends there was no one who spoke of prize fights; even Charles Wilkinson,
whose conversational reservations were certainly few, ignored the prize ring.  Smith went unconsciously
on, but for his hearer, for the time at least, the spell was snapped.  Still, she listened.
He told her more of what the maps showed--how they indicated the location and size of the water
mains in the streets, of the hydrants, the fire department houses, even the fire alarm boxes--everything,
in short, which the fire underwriter desired to contemplate when passing on a risk submitted
for the company's approval. By this time they had reached the other end of the big room and
were close to O'Connor's office.

"I really must have taken you on a walk of several miles," said Smith, contritely; "and if
you are going to let me continue this monologue, I may at least let you sit down.  Suppose
we go in here; Mr. O'Connor has just left town, and we may as well use his office."

Again Miss Maitland hesitated, although not sufficiently to attract her companion's notice.
She was not accustomed to interviews in private offices with strange young men.  But she entered,
and Smith behind her, and the glass door closed on them both, shutting out the sound of the
clicking typewriters.  Helen seated herself with her back to the window.

"Go on," she said.  "I want to hear everything."

Smith went on.

Briefly but clearly he sketched the foundations of insurance.  How, in more primitive times,
when a man's house burned, his neighbors used to provide him with materials and come to help
him rebuild; but this proved onerous, and instead a communal fund for the purpose of assisting
fire sufferers was established.  The modern insurance company had gradually come to assume
the management of this fund and eventually to undertake the function of insuring against fire.
But the people were still the arbiters of the fire cost, and the companies merely barometrically
reflected the condition of the community as to fires.  When fires are numerous and costly,
the price of insurance must advance.  Insurance is a tax which the companies collect in premiums
from the many and pay out in losses to the few.  But the idea remains the same.

"That is interesting," said the girl.  "Now will you think me very stupid if I ask you to explain
what all the terms mean as you go along?  You spoke a moment ago of underwriting: I don't know
what underwriting is.  I thought big loans and stock issues and things of that sort were underwritten.
Is this the same?"

"So they are, but this is another matter.  Fire underwriting is a thing all to itself--sui
generis.  Similarly, a fire underwriter is a person like no other--at all events he likes to
persuade himself that he is. And frequently he succeeds."

Smith smiled at his own reflection.

"A fire underwriter, to be a real one," he went on, "should be a chemist, financier, mechanic,
lawyer, engineer, and diplomat, and a dash of a clairvoyant, too.  He should know everybody's
business, including his own.  Consider what he is expected to know: there is no class of industry
which can dispense with insurance."

"Except the Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction Company," interposed Helen, quickly.

"That is true up to the present time," Smith assented; "but their wisdom in having done so
is not sufficiently proved, and Mr. Charles Wilkinson, whom I met in your uncle's office, is
in hopes of being able to change their ideas on that subject.  But I have my doubts if he will
succeed, from what is said of Mr. Hurd."

"I think Mr. Wilkinson spoke of having met you," the girl said carelessly; which was positive
disingenuousness, for she remembered very well indeed.  And here she sat, talking to the man
whose suggestion, as Charles quoted it, had roused her interest in the business.  Helen was
not sufficiently Oriental to find anything predestined in this meeting, but it nevertheless
seemed a little odd.  Abruptly she spoke, to rid her of her own thoughts.

"Mr. Hurd believes in carrying his own risk--isn't that the expression?"

"Absolutely.  No life-long fire insurance man could have phrased it more correctly."

"I'm afraid it was mere plagiarism.  I think Mr. Wilkinson used it."

"Credit withdrawn," said Smith.  "What were we talking about?  Oh, yes--about underwriters.
Now, the fire underwriter has to pass upon the danger of every risk whose insurance is offered
to his company.  The company, of course, makes its underwriting or trade profit--or hopes to
do so--by receiving more money in payment of premiums than it has to disburse, after deducting
expenses, in losses.  It must therefore accept its business as scientifically as possible.
It must know how much money to risk--that is, how large a policy to write--on every class of
risk in the world.  When a line on a foundry and machine shop comes in, let us say, from Silas
Osgood and Company, the underwriter is supposed to know how much premium, or rate, the risk
should pay, and how many dollars the company can safely hold."

"But I thought you said Uncle Silas sent you the risk.  Doesn't he also determine the amount
the company takes?"

"The amount for which the policy is issued; but he is merely the agent. He exercises his best
judgment, but the home office underwriter is the court of last resort.  Generally speaking,
the agent secures the business and offers it to the company for its acceptance.  If, when it
comes, the underwriter feels that the rate of premium is not commensurate with the hazard,
he writes the agent, 'Rate too low: please cancel.'  And there is where his diplomacy comes
in.  The agent, who must now get back the policy from the assured, must not be offended, or
his more desirable business will be placed in some rival and more liberal company.  If, on
the other hand, the rate of premium seems adequate, but the amount at risk is too great, the
underwriter reinsures or cedes a part of his line to another company, paying it a proportionate
part of the premium, and holds only what he thinks safe.  And here is where his judgment is
needed.  The company has what it calls its idea of line--which means that it doesn't want to
lose more than a certain amount, say five thousand dollars, in any ordinary fire. . . .  I'm
not boring you?"

"Oh, no," said Helen.  "I'm following it all."

"Well, then, what the underwriter is supposed to do is to decide, from the kind of risk he
is asked to insure, how much the Company can write, and still not be liable for a greater loss
than five thousand dollars in any ordinary fire."

"How can he do it?"

"By knowing his business.  When he passes on a foundry, for example, he ought to know, first,
the fire record of foundries in general; second, what rate of premium they ought in general
to pay; and third, what the dangers, or, as we call them, hazards, are.  By looking at the
map he must be able to tell where the fire is most likely to start--where, in other words,
fires usually do start in foundries.  Probably it will be the cupola charging platform or the
core ovens.  Then he can closely tell from the construction of that particular foundry, considering
also the protection, extinguishing appliances, public water pressure, nearness of the fire
department, and fifty other considerations, how much of the whole plant would burn--probably.
If only half, then he feels safe in writing ten thousand dollars on the risk, since only half
of it is likely to be destroyed by one fire."

"I don't see how you can tell."

"Well, most companies have quite elaborate line sheets to assist their underwriters in determining
how much to hold on various classes of risks, but between you and me, you can't tell surely.
But you do the best you can, and the ablest underwriter is the man who tells the closest. 
A really good underwriter should know the hazards of all the ordinary risks in the world, and
be able to tell you offhand what is the danger point in a brewery, a playing-card factory,
a paper mill, a public school, a shovel works, a Catholic church, a chemical laboratory--every
sort and kind of risk.  Of course he has surveys, made by inspectors, to help him, showing
details the map fails to show, such as the location of your piano, and where the hazards lie
and how they are cared for.  But inspectors are fallible, and he must know--everything."

"You make my head whirl," Helen said.  "To know everything!  It sounds colossal.  Do you know
everything?"

Smith laughed.

"No," he replied.  "Decidedly not.  I'm afraid I know only a very small proportion of what
I ought.  But the big men of the business do.  There is one man who I verily believe is perfectly
familiar with every kind of risk in the United States.  If there is a chemical process he doesn't
know or can't find out about, I'll eat the thing myself.  He knows every explosive mixture,
every fulminate, every sort or manner of dust, paste, or grease which burns or explodes of itself."

"But that one man must be a genius!  What does the average man do? Doesn't he need some one
to help him in all this?  It sounds like such a terrific undertaking to keep track of so many
things.  Doesn't it make your own head swim at times?"

"Well," said Smith, "of course there are a thousand and one things in the nature of aids to
the underwriter--things whose proper action he doesn't directly control, although he has to
keep a father's eye on them to see that they don't run amuck."

"Such as what?" asked the girl.

"The inspectors I spoke of, for one thing; the map makers who make the pretty brown buildings
in Deerfield Street; the rate makers who go around applying schedules to buildings, and from
the various hazards of construction, occupancy, and exposure fixing the rate which the schedule
brings out; the stamping bureaus that check the rates as the agents send through the business.
And then there are the field men, called special agents, who travel from agency to agency,
appointing and discontinuing agents, straightening out difficulties, adjusting losses, and
making themselves generally useful.  All these the underwriter has to help him, as well as
information such as building inspections by cities, police regulations, fire alarm systems,
municipal rules and vagaries of all sorts--oh, a category of things as long as one's arm, which
of course an underwriter doesn't actually himself supervise, but whose accuracy he must be
able to estimate--and often repair if they get out of order and cease to run smoothly."

"But--" said the girl, slowly.

"But what?" Smith asked.

"But isn't it awfully technical, this business?  I had an idea that fire insurance was done
principally by clerks writing endlessly in large books.  That's what they always seem to be
doing in Mr. Osgood's office. And now you tell me it's like this.  This is absolutely different
from what I thought it was, and it seems incredibly difficult, but--"

"Well, but what?" demanded her companion.

"Well, then--it seems to me a little dry.  Or perhaps not exactly that, but a little too scientific,
too technical.  Not so vivid, so vital--"

She stopped short at the expression of Smith's face.

CHAPTER IX

"Not vital!" he exclaimed, getting out of his chair and facing her. "Not vital!  Really, Miss
Maitland, what can you call vital?  Fire insurance is as vital as anything in the world of
business to-day--or in any world that I know anything about."  He paused, and some of the indignation
went out of his eyes.  "I beg your pardon," he said more gently.  "I had thought I was making
you understand."

"You were--you were," Helen hastened to assure him; but he shook his head.

"Not if you think, after all, that fire insurance isn't vital."

"I'm afraid I chose my word badly.  What I meant, perhaps, was that it wasn't picturesque.
It isn't that, is it--as the word is generally understood?"

"You mean it isn't building bridges over boiling chasms three thousand feet below in the Andes
river bottoms; it isn't leading ragged armies of half-baked South American natives against
a mud stockade; it isn't shooting African animals and dining on quinine and hippopotamus liver.
No, there's none of the soldier of fortune business about it.  But vital!  My heavens! what
do you call vital?"

"I don't know," said the girl, humbly.  She was somewhat abashed before this flare her words
had so suddenly lighted.  And she felt honestly contrite, for she saw she had hurt an ideal
that was very close and real to the man before her.

At the sound of her reply Smith came to himself.

"I really beg your pardon--again," he said, with a little tremor in his voice.  "I didn't appreciate
what I was doing, or I wouldn't have blown up with a report like a nitroglycerine storehouse.
Will you excuse me?"

Helen looked squarely at him.

"Yes--I will," she said, "on one condition."

"And what is that?"

"That you blow up again.  I would really like to see it just as you do, and that is much the
best way--carry me along with you."

The underwriter looked momentarily away; then his eyes rested on her thoughtfully.

"All right.  I'll do it," he said.  "I'll make it so plain to you that you can't escape it.
I'll hold you with my glittering eye till you cannot choose but hear," he quoted, with a smile.

"I do not choose but hear," Miss Maitland said.

Smith was silent for a long minute.

"The picturesque things are all very well in their way," he said. "Revolutions and railway
building and all that.  Let us take railway building for example--I was once in the construction
department of a big railroad, myself.  But every one can't get into that department, and even
there, there is a good deal of routine and very little thrill. It's only once in a lifetime,
practically, that a man gets his chance to build the suspension bridge that swings a mile above
the chasm. With most railroad builders one day's work is pretty much like another's.  Not much
excitement, except at long intervals.  To plan what you must do is interesting, of course,
but the execution is generally a long grind."

"Yes," Helen assented; "I fancy that would be so."

"It is so.  But even if it were not, the kind of obstacles that must be surmounted are very
much the same, year in and year out.  You ford quicksands; you evade granite hillsides; you
fight walking delegates. What I mean is that the set of obstacles doesn't change much, and
the environment of the railway constructor is always about the same.  But that is not so with
the underwriter.  One moment he is in the construction camp of the road builder, and the next
in the palace of the city banker; one moment he is in an Idaho sawmill, and the next in a New
England college chapel; one moment he is in a Florida orange grove, and the next in a salmon
cannery on the Oregon coast.  Ten thousand businesses pass before his eyes, and he must be
alert to the local conditions affecting every one.  There is no fixed environment for the underwriter."

The girl interrupted him.

"That may be true.  But there is no work of original construction about it, is there?  Can
you compare the vitality of your business with that of the men who create their own ideas?
There is no routine about that. And after all, isn't that more vital than anything else can be?"

"Yes," said Smith, "I presume it is.  Certainly it is for the genius; probably even for any
man of high and true talent, a man able to lose himself in his own creation.  Undoubtedly that
is the only real elixir of life, the only ineffable exaltation.  But isn't that carrying your
argument out too far?  We can scarcely set a standard for creative geniuses--there are too
few of them.  You spoke of the men who create their own ideas.  How many of them are there?
There are thousands of near-authors, near-musicians, near-artists, near-poets, who are painfully
remote from the genuine article.  Do you understand what I mean?"

"Oh, yes.  And that is so.  I myself have at least seen that."

"Of course it is so.  And do you suppose these second-rate creators get the real thrill?  Not
they.  In their hearts they know they are frauds, impostors, dilettantes at best.  There is
no vitality to their grip on things, and they know it.  They deal with the spurious and fustian
from cradle to grave.  Why, I myself know innumerable people that spend their lives in trying
to persuade themselves into thinking they are doing something worth while!"

Mentally the girl winced; the words went home so close to Pelgram, who had been in her own
mind.  It was this very feeling of protest, for which Smith now found voice, that had sickened
her of Pelgram.

"Such people get little out of life," the underwriter went on, "probably first because they
are constantly uneasy in the knowledge that they are charlatans, and second because they do
not have anything real, anything alive, to face.  They deal in half-tones, in nuances--"

Nuances!  Was the man clairvoyant?  He had suggested that an underwriter ought to be.  Helen
felt that this channel had been pursued far enough.

"No one defends dilettanteism as such," she said.

"One can, though, easily enough, if one wishes," Smith promptly responded.  "After all, to
do things for the love of doing them is the right way.  But they must be the right things,
and to get the full taste out of anything one must have faced real dragons to attain it. There
is no lack of dragons in the insurance business.  You're fighting them all the time.  If it
isn't against time to keep your premiums up, it's against fate to keep your losses down.  And
of course all your days you're fighting on not one but a thousand battle lines to keep your
rivals from getting your business away from you.  Now your little artist, your semi-creator,
hasn't anything like that.  So long as he lives he hasn't any real facts to face."

"No; I suppose not," said the girl, slowly.

"The same trouble, or very nearly the same, exists for your soldier of fortune.  To be sure,
he faces facts--there can be no doubt about that--but they are facts he deliberately seeks,
and not the actual obstacles that the world rolls up before him.  He gets color and excitement
all right, but the quality of the self-constructed excitement isn't quite so fine; in fact,
after a while it begins to pall on one.  Then, too, a man wearies of doing things that serve
no useful end and that get nowhere; he begins to feel awkward and superfluous in the whole
scheme of things.  And these soldiers of fortune don't really do anything, they merely put
on the canvas a few bold strokes that attract ephemeral attention but which their successors
promptly paint out, and they leave the world precisely where it was before they entered it
or carried on their living."

"But isn't that much the same with you, too?  Fire insurance doesn't get anywhere, does it?
Of course it's more useful to provide people with fire insurance than with South American revolutions,
but after all it isn't indispensable.  The world could move, couldn't it," she said diffidently,
"without fire insurance?  At least it did so for a good many centuries."

"The modern world couldn't," Smith said promptly.  "Insurance is one of the things that the
world, having had, could not do without.  You do not perhaps realize the trend of the world
to-day.  It is no longer military; it is along commercial lines.  Napoleon and Wellington to-day
would be capitalists, either bankers or merchants or manufacturers, and their battles would
be fought with money, not men.  The world is ruled by commerce and trade--and where would trade
be without fire insurance? Nowhere.  The foundation of modern trade is credit.  Without credit,
no trade--or either petty trade limited to cash transactions or trade carried on by great millionaires
or trusts who are above the fear of fire--although it is doubtful if there are any such.  But
for ordinary people, take credit away and trade is at an end."

"How is that?  I don't understand," the girl said.

"Business to-day is transacted mainly on borrowed money.  Jones, who keeps a corner grocery
store, hasn't enough money to buy groceries because his customers don't pay him until the end
of the month.  So he goes to White and Company, who are wholesale grocers, and buys his stock
on credit.  But do you suppose White and Company would let him have those groceries if it were
not for insurance?  Certainly not; that's their only protection.  If Jones's store burned with
that stock before it was sold, and there was no insurance, who would lose?  Not Jones--White
and Company could force him into bankruptcy, but that wouldn't collect their bill.  As I said,
trade would be impossible, except cash trade and that in the grip of interests so vast that
the ordinary run of fire losses wouldn't count."

"I never thought of that before," the girl remarked.

"Would the cotton grower ship his cotton north to the New England mills or to Liverpool if
he couldn't insure it in transportation?  No; he wouldn't dare take the risk.  His cotton would
remain on his plantation until some venturesome buyer came, paid him cash, and carried it away
with him.  We should go back to the commercial dark ages."

"You have crushed me, Mr. Smith," Helen said with a smile.  "I will admit that insurance is
indispensable."

"I was in hopes that you would admit it, not because you were crushed, but because you saw."

"I think I'm beginning to see," she answered.

The underwriter regarded her a little doubtfully; then a whimsical smile crossed his lips,
making him singularly youthful and--Helen noted--singularly attractive.  By a sudden change
of thought he turned toward the window.

"A seaport city is a wonderful thing," he said.  "Here come the keels of the world, bringing
the tribute of the seven seas.  It is a fine place to work, Miss Maitland, this down town New
York within sight of the water and the water front.  Even if you seldom get time to look at
it, you have the feeling that it is there.  There is never a minute, summer or winter, night
or day, when those keels are not bringing argosies home to these old docks.  Merely to walk
along the shore front is as though one were in touch with all the world."

"I've seen some of it in Boston," said the girl; "but Boston is not the port it used to be."

"There are places in the world, they say--Port Said is one of them and the Café de la Paix
in Paris is another--where all things and all people come soon or late.  Those places must
be the most interesting in the world."

"You have never been abroad?" the girl asked.

"No; I never had time.  I have to get my world travel, world strangeness, world movement, as
I can.  And I get it pretty well, here in this office."

"Here!  What do you mean?"

"We photograph it all, day by day."

"Oh," said Helen, "you mean you get it all from the maps you showed me?"

"Partly that.  That is, the maps are part of it.  They make the stage, the setting where the
insurance drama is played.  But the characters come on the stage through the medium of plain
sheets of printed paper known as daily reports.  The daily report is the link that unites this
office to the throbbing life of a thousand cities around us."

"And what is a daily report?  Certainly the name of it doesn't sound romantic."

"No, it doesn't.  And yet the daily report is as vital a document as there is in the world."

"In what way?  I never heard of it before."

"You never asked Mr. Osgood.  He has sent us many thousand.  As you know, the company receives
its business from agents, scattered all through the country, at most of the important and a
large number of unimportant points.  In New England alone this company has nearly two hundred
agents, each one writing policies when people apply for insurance."

"Does Uncle Silas write policies?  I thought the companies themselves did that."

"No.  Mr. Osgood has a young man in his office--his name is Reed--who does nothing else.  And
every time a policy is written by Mr. Reed and signed by Mr. Osgood or Mr. Cole and delivered
to the assured, this peculiar document, the daily report, is made up and sent in to this office.
It is really a complete description of the policy which has just been written."

"But there must be thousands!"

"Of course.  One for every policy every agent issues.  We get more than two hundred a day in
this office."

"That's why Uncle Silas said I ought to go to a home office to see things properly.  That's
what he meant--it's the center of everything. I begin to understand."

Smith, glancing at her, perceived that there was no question of her interest now.

"Here they come, the daily reports," he continued, "and we open them--dailies from Chicago,
San Antonio, Butte, Lenox, Jersey City, Tampa, Bangor.  Dailies in English, a few in Spanish,
quite a number in French, for a few of our Canadian agents speak nothing else.  This current
of dailies flowing through this office, never ceasing day in and day out, year after year,
is like the current of the blood tending back to the heart, like the response of the nerves
to the pulse-beat, reporting at the brain, bringing news of the body's health, even down to
the fingers' ends.  And we sit here, like a spider in a web, drawing all the world."

"What do they tell you?" asked the girl, absorbedly.

"Everything;--or nearly all.  Is a trust in the making?  We know of it here, when we see the
ownership of scattered factories change to a common head.  Is prohibition gaining ground in
the South?  We can tell by the shut-down endorsements on brewery and distillery policies and
by the increasing losses on saloons whose owners can make no further profit.  Is there a corner
in wheat or coffee or cotton?  We follow the moves in the struggle by the ebb and flow of insurance
in the big warehouses and elevators and compresses.  Is the automobile market overstocked?
Our rising loss ratio gives the reply.  Are hard times coming?  We can tell it when the merchants
begin to cut down their insurance, which means their stocks as well, buying what they need
from day to day.  Is the panic over?  We learn it by a rush of new dailies, buildings in course
of construction, new and costly machinery introduced in factories, increased insurance all
along the line."

"It sounds almost uncanny," said Helen, slowly.  "Can you really learn all these things in
this way?"

"Not all, of course, or at least not always, by any means, for the Guardian is only one of
many companies, and only a small part, a fraction of one per cent, of the country's business
comes to us.  But we learn a great deal; much of it along rather surprising lines.  I learned
yesterday, for example, that the scandal which has been suspected to exist between the fair
but probably frail Mazie Dupont and her manager is undoubtedly a matter of fact."

"How could you find that out?" Helen was amazed to find herself asking. The actress was a celebrity,
to be sure, yet Miss Maitland, in her own self-analysis, should hardly have evinced curiosity
regarding the details of her private life.

"Ownership of pretty country house up the Hudson transferred from his name to hers.  Endorsement
on our policy," replied Smith.  "Of course that's not proof, but its pretty good presumptive
evidence.  We get similar cases every day.  Here's a millionaire gets caught the wrong side
of the stock market and needs money.  We know it because his hundred thousand dollar Franz
Hals goes to the art dealer's to be sold, or some big mercantile building that he owns is mortgaged
to the Universal Savings Bank.  Endorsement for our daily report.  So they go."

"Well, I shall be afraid to have our furniture insured ever again after this," said the girl,
with a laugh.

"Insure it with the Guardian, and I myself will see that your family skeletons are kept safely
out of sight in the closets where they belong."

"That's very nice of you."

"I'm afraid, though, that your insurance wouldn't be very interesting, as regards sensation,"
the underwriter went on.  "But there are lots of people the investigation of whose insurance
affairs is in the field of a first-class detective agency.  There are people, as you may or
may not know, who make their living by having fires.  These fires are fraudulent, of course,
but fraud is very hard to prove.  We can never secure a witness, for no one applies a match
to his shop while any one is looking on; and with only circumstantial evidence and an individual
pitted against a rich corporation, the jury generally gives the firebug the benefit of the
doubt.  Most of these people put in a claim for goods supposed to have been totally burned
but which in reality they never possessed or which have been secretly removed just before the
fire.  Usually they have a fraudulent set of books, too, to back up their claim; and we have
to keep a close watch all the time for birds of that feather."

"But how can you?"

"Oh, we have a pretty complete fire record compiled from loss experiences sent by every company
to the publisher.  All companies subscribe to this record.  If a man has several suspicious-looking
fires, nobody will insure him.  If he gets such a bad fire reputation in one town that he can't
get insurance there, he moves somewhere else, but the record keeps track of him, and finally
he has to turn honest--or change his name."

"Do many of them do that?"

"Not so many as you'd think.  You see, it's not so easy to disguise one's personality.  The
La Mode Cloak and Suit Company may turn out to be our old friend Lazarus Epstein; but we have
the service of the principal commercial agencies to aid us in becoming better acquainted with
our policyholders.  And any one who has no rating in these commercial agencies we investigate
very thoroughly, making our local agent tell us all he knows of the man, and sending for a
full detailed report by the commercial agency besides.  Even then we occasionally get caught
with a crook, but not often.  The Guardian is very careful; if all other companies were equally
so, there would be fewer firebugs in business."

"How do you mean?"

"Well, many companies rely wholly on their agents; they don't send for these special reports,
and the result is that they get caught for a dishonest loss, and the crook who is smart enough
to make the agent think he is straight gets away with it.  Thus encouraging the impostors."

"But are not the commercial agency men fooled too?"

"Oh, yes, they're only human; but at least you have two sources of information to draw on--and
three, if the man has a fire record.  By the time we've finished we are apt to know a good
deal about our policyholder, here at the home office, and sometimes we learn very strange things--sometimes
humorous and sometimes quite the reverse."

He stopped, and Miss Maitland, seeing his pause, hesitated with the question she had been about
to put.

"I wonder if you'd care to hear about a case that came to my notice yesterday," he said.

"I would very much," the girl replied.

"You know these commercial agency reports are by no means what I should term models of English
prose style.  They are usually about as dull and dry documents as any I know in the manner
of their presentation of facts.  Their authors have about as much need for imagination as the
gentlemen who compile city directories and telephone books; beside them articles in the Encyclopaedia
Britannica are yellow journalism.  All the same, they deal with facts, and facts can be more
tragic than any romantic fiction ever produced.  This case I speak of was simply the story
of a harness maker who lived in Robbinsville, a small town up in the center of New York State.
A little while ago our local agent wrote a policy on this man's stock, and because he had no
rating showing his financial responsibility, the underwriter who passes on New York State business
sent for a detailed report, which after some delay came to us yesterday."

Again he paused, and there was silence in the little office until he resumed.

"The rating said--and the manner of it showed that the reporter felt the poignancy of his words--that
the harness maker was bankrupt.  For nearly fifty years he had kept a harness shop in that
same little town, and competition by a younger, more aggressive man had taken away a good many
of his customers, his money had gone in ordinary living expenses, his assets had shrunk to
almost nothing, and his liabilities had increased to fifteen hundred dollars, which to him
might just as well have been a million, and now all he could do was to throw himself on the
mercy of his creditors.  Which he did."

"And what did they do?" said Helen, in a low voice.

"This is what the old man said--the commercial agency reporter gave it just as the old man
said it: 'I have sold harness in this town since I was twenty years old.  Now you say I am
bankrupt.  I want to do what is right.  I don't want to cheat any man.  I don't know where
the money has gone.  You gentlemen must do what is best.  But I hope you can make some arrangement
by which I can keep my business.  I have had it so many, so many years.  It probably won't
be for much longer anyhow.  But we don't want to go on the town--my wife and I.  A man and
his wife ought not to go on the town when he's worked honest all his life and is willing to
work still.'"

Smith rose abruptly, and turned toward the window.  "I've heard of 'Over the Hills to the Poorhouse'
and similar things," the underwriter went on, after a moment, not looking at the girl, "but
this somehow seemed different.  Perhaps it was its unexpectedness, or finding it in such a
way.  Do you know," he said, "I felt as though I'd like to write a check for fifteen hundred
dollars and send it to that old harness maker up in Robbinsville, just to give him one more
chance."

He turned at the touch of a light hand on his arm.

"I'd like to go halves with you," said a voice which Helen's Boston acquaintances would hardly
have recognized as hers.

"It's a go," said Smith.  "I can't afford it; but five or six hundred dollars in actual cash
would probably straighten things out pretty well, and if the creditors don't grant the extension
to give the old fellow enough to carry him the rest of the way--by Jove, we'll finance the
harness business, you and I!"

"You can count on me for my half.  Shake hands on the bargain!" cried Helen, in the exhilaration
following emotion sustained, and Smith gravely took her hand in his own.  For a moment they
stood side by side looking out on the East River which O'Connor's office overlooked, and for
a space neither spoke.  Then Helen returned somewhat sedately to her seat, and demurely spoke
to Smith's back:--

"Well, my present interest in the fire insurance business is all that its most ardent champion
could wish."

The underwriter turned back to her.

"I'm awfully glad if I haven't bored you," he said.  "I've been holding forth like a vendor
at a county fair.  But I didn't mean to do it."

"You know you haven't bored me," she replied.  "But I must be going now.  I thank you very
much for the trouble you have taken with my education.  I hope it will not turn out to be altogether
barren."

"I hope it will not," returned Smith, politely.

She was about to turn to the door.  The underwriter made no move.

"Shall I say good-by now?" she asked.

"Here better than elsewhere.  Good-by."

And then, to her subsequent surprise, Helen found herself saying:--

"I am stopping with my aunt, Miss Wardrop, at thirteen Washington Square, North.  If you and
I are to go into the harness business together, I hope you will come--and bring your price
lists and things, won't you?"

"Thank you.  I will surely come," the underwriter answered simply.

It was not until she found herself once more mounting the steps of her aunt's house that Miss
Maitland recollected the lamp shade.

CHAPTER X

There have been in half a century many and significant changes in Washington Square.  Of the
buildings that defied time fifty years ago, not many remain.  On the East especially, where
Waverley Place--once more picturesquely called Rag Carpet Lane--links the Square to Broadway,
the traditional brick structures have all been replaced by modern loft-buildings, almost as
sober but far less austere.  Elsewhere around the Square the old-time residences only here
and there survive, encroached upon more and more by the inroads of modernity.  Only along Washington
Square North, east and west of Fifth Avenue, has there been consistent and effective resistance
to the tidal march of progress; and it was east of the Avenue and in the immediate shadow of
the New that Miss Mary Wardrop had lived for more than three generations.

Now there remained only three of what must not long ago have been a considerable community--those
that dwelt on Washington Square at the time when Central Park was being made or when Lincoln
called for a quarter of a million volunteers and in prompt and patriotic answer the Northern
regiments passed through cheering crowds down Broadway.

Miss Wardrop herself, being by far the most dominant of the three, shall be mentioned first.
The second was her ancient butler, whose surname--and apparently his only name--was Jenks,
which was always pronounced with ever so slight a tendency toward him of the Horse Marines.
And the third, who, like Miss Wardrop, still retained possession of the family mansion, was
Mr. Augustus Lispenard, bachelor, aged--in the morning--nearly eighty, although later in the
day, when the ichor in his veins began to course more briskly, his appearance was that of an
uncommonly well-preserved man of sixty or thereabouts.  His residence adjoined that of Miss
Wardrop, but there had never been any intimacy between the two households.  For this there
were a number of reasons, but the paramount one was the fact that Mr. Lispenard was descended
from one of the oldest houses among the Knickerbockers, and as such it was extremely difficult
for him to become aware of any one not sprung with equal selectness.  The Wardrops had arrived
on the Square at the comparatively recent period of Miss Mary's babyhood--and even now Miss
Mary was only sixty or so.

Miss Helen Maitland remembered very well the occasion of her first meeting with the distinguished
personage who lived next door.  It had occurred on the first visit she had made her aunt, when
she was but a small girl, yet Helen had found few things in after years to etch themselves
more sharply upon her recollection.  It had been in the holiday season, and, Helen's mother
having been sent South by the inclemencies of the Boston weather, the child had been left with
Miss Wardrop over the Christmas time.  On New Year's Day, wide-eyed, she had beheld the elaborate,
old-world, decorous preparations made by Jenks under the eye of his mistress, and with delight
she had learned that, while she could not--nor indeed did she wish to--attend the New Year's
reception herself, she was to be allowed a seat of vantage above stairs where part, and the
most interesting part, of the reception hall lay open to her view.

Miss Wardrop rigidly preserved the old custom as to New Year's calls--preserved even the old
blue punch-bowl, which Jenks filled with a decoction of haunting and peculiar excellence; and
the dress wherein the hostess received had done duty on more New Years' Days than its owner
liked always to recall.

Peering down through the mahogany railings that fenced her eyrie from the world, the youthful
Miss Maitland had watched, starry-eyed, a function which in essentials had not altered in very
many years.  Its hostess had grown more gray, but no less alert, had changed in years more
than in age.  And it was with a courtly bow, which also had not varied in angle or courtliness,
that little Miss Maitland saw Mr. Augustus Lispenard bend low over Miss Wardrop's hand.

A small, slight man was Mr. Lispenard, very erect, very straight of eyebrow, keen of glance,
precise of speech.  His extraordinary black eyes peered out from beneath his level brows in
a disquietingly observant manner.  One felt immediately that one's hands and feet were peculiarly
large and awkward, or one's last remark hopelessly banal, or one's birthplace in some cheap
and innominate region outside of Manhattan.  So long as Miss Wardrop remained under forty,
Mr. Lispenard had held aloof.  Perhaps he feared that by calling on a maiden lady under forty
he might arouse hopes which, however chaste, could not, in the nature of things, be fulfilled,
he being what he was, a Knickerbocker.  But after this danger mark was past, and perhaps stimulated
by the removal of almost the last of the other patriarchal residents of the Square, he called
one New Year's afternoon, and gravely presented the compliments of the season to the woman
to whom he now spoke for the first time in his life.

There was nothing vindictive about Miss Wardrop.  She appreciated his viewpoint, and bade him
welcome as naturally as though they had been friends for years.  And thereafter Mr. Lispenard
was an irregular but always gladly received caller in the parlor separated from his own by
little more than twelve inches of brick and mortar.

In the days when Miss Mary was growing up to childhood, Mr. Lispenard had been one of those
who had marched down Broadway in 1861, not to return for four long years.  South of the Potomac
he had acquired many vivid and remarkable experiences of which no one had ever heard him speak,
and also a pension, incredibly small, which he received in silent dignity each month and equally
without comment turned over to a rascally body servant who had run away from more battles than
one would have conceived to be possible.  This sturdy retainer, having served a short time
in Mr. Lispenard's troop and performed him some trifling services, had ten years after the
war turned up with a calm and most surprising assumption of his old commander's responsibility
for his entire existence, and since that time had lived on his ex-lieutenant's bounty.

One of the chief attractions, in Helen's eyes, of her aunt's old house in Washington Square
was the chance of a call or two from Mr. Lispenard.  After her third or fourth visit he grew
friendly with her, in fact vastly more friendly than he ever became with her aunt.  And she,
for her part, found this elderly aristocrat all the more fascinating for finding him in New
York, through the rushing progressiveness of which he seemed to move in a kind of stately,
romantic twilight.

"My dear child," were her aunt's first words after Helen's latest arrival, "you have missed
by a single day a call from our next-door neighbor."

"Well, if he doesn't come again," replied the girl, with a smile, "I'll scandalize the dear
old man nearly to death by going and calling on him myself."

And this, a few days later, she actually did, to the carefully concealed elation of Mr. Lispenard's
elderly housekeeper, who, after ushering Miss Maitland into the high-ceiled parlor, betook
herself to the region below stairs, where she definitely expressed herself to the cook.

"Sure it's a divil the masther is wid the ladies till this very day--and him only about four
minutes inside of eighty!"

"A lady calling, is it?" inquired the cook, with interest.

"Sure--a young wan.  It's the ould bhoys have the way wid them, after all's said and done."

Meanwhile in the old-fashioned reception room with its tinkly crystal chandelier aquiver, as
it were, in sympathetic excitement, the old gentleman was greeting his young guest.

"Old age!" he said, with a smile of half-mock ruefulness.  "Old age! When ladies come to call
on us, we understand, we old beaux, that it is because we are no longer considered dangerous.
Yet the bitterness of that knowledge, were it twice as bitter as it is, would be more than
offset by my honor and pleasure in receiving you."

Helen beamed on him for reply, and his swift, penetrating eyes observed her.

"You have grown up to be beautiful, my child," observed old Mr. Lispenard.  "There is nothing
about you of this new generation, which I hate.  Indeed, if you would wear crinolines and a
curl of that dark hair on your shoulder, you would be quite perfect."

His young caller blushed a little, but she laughingly retorted:--

"Did you say you had ceased to be dangerous?  No one of my generation could have said that.
You will turn my head, sir--and isn't that being dangerous?  For the heads of my generation,
the new generation, as you call it, are not easy to turn."

"No.  True enough," said Mr. Lispenard, nodding with cynical approval. "Their heads are on
so tight there is no turning them; no flexibility about the young people to-day.  The maids
are sad enough, but the young men are worse.  Gallants is what we used to call young men, but
they make none to-day that could answer to that term.  Gallants!  There is no more courtesy
in the land than among the fishes below sea!"

Helen felt inclined to defend her contemporaries, but as she looked at the old aristocrat before
her and contrasted his manner with that of some of the men in her own set, she did not know
quite what to say. Pelgram's poses seemed cheap and shallow, and Charlie Wilkinson's free-and-easy
carriage might have its virtues, but it certainly was not marked by dignity, nor did it make
particularly for respect.

"They have no reverence for age, none for the great things, the great days that some of us
remember.  I confess that I do not like them.  I am quite an old man, and for some years past
I have met scarcely a young man whom my mother would have permitted in her drawing room."

"I know what you mean," Helen said thoughtfully; "and in one way, at least, I'm afraid you're
right.  But don't you think that most of the difference is on the surface, and the young people
of to-day are not really so irreverent as they appear to be?  The fashion now is toward plain,
blunt unaffectedness; reverence is a polish of manners which implies insincerity, and the young
men who are really reverent are most of them ashamed of it and work all the harder to conceal it."

"They are not obliged to overexert themselves," replied Mr. Lispenard. "But perhaps you are
right, my dear.  I admit that I am out of sympathy with the younger generation.  They might
possess a thousand virtues, and I could see none of them."

"I'm of the younger generation," said his visitor, with humorous apologeticalness.  "I hope
you won't be too hard on it."

"One of its few virtues--that it numbers you among its members," her host gallantly rejoined.
"But they are not all like you--or there would be fewer bachelors in your town of Boston."

Helen laughed outright.

"No bachelor yet have I unmade," she replied, somewhat enigmatically.

"Indeed?" said Mr. Lispenard.  "I may not think very highly of the young men of to-day, but
my opinion of them is not so low as that. Come, now--I am an old gentleman and the model of
reticence--I will never tell.  I'll wager you a box of roses against anything you like that
you had a proposal no later than last week.  Perhaps you even came to New York to escape him."

Considering that Pelgram's studio tea was barely a week in the past, Helen's face betrayed
her confusion.

"Touché!" said her host, with a laugh.  "Really, I may have to revise in part my idea of modern
young men.  After all, they're not blind."

Helen found that time passed quickly during her first few days in New York.  Miss Wardrop was
a self-sufficient personage, with a decided opinion upon everything in heaven and on earth,
and a preference no less decided for that opinion over those held by others.  She had, however,
a great fondness for her niece, whom she honored, as she expressed it, by making not one iota
of change in her menage or habits on account of the presence of her visitor.

"It would be a poor arrangement for both of us if I were to put myself out for you," she had
once explained to the girl.  "I would be certain to regret having done so; and if I did, so
would you.  So I will pay you the compliment of going on precisely as though you weren't here."

So she continued to breakfast in bed at the conservative hour of ten o'clock; continued to
superintend the rehabilitation of two rooms on the second floor which Jenks, to his rheumatic
distress, was redecorating in accordance with the latest whim of his mistress; continued in
all things to order her life exactly as she had ordered it for twenty years.

It was now the very end of September, and autumn was more than ever in the air.  There was
none of the chill ocean breath which in Boston had already begun to make itself unpleasantly
evident, and Helen found the keenest enjoyment in walking about the city, which heretofore
she had seen principally from the windows of street cars and taxicabs.

It was about three o'clock of a Saturday afternoon at the close of her second week in New York
that she started northward up Fifth Avenue, casting, as she turned, one backward look at the
beauty of the Washington Arch, white in the sunshine.  She herself, after the first few blocks,
took the west side of the avenue, for the afternoon sun was unexpectedly warm.  When she came
to Fourteenth Street, she paused to allow the passage of a number of street cars and other
vehicles which were figuratively champing their bits till the Jove-like person in blue set
them free to move.  And as she stood there, she became aware of a voice behind her, which said:--

"You have chosen a beautiful day for a walk, Miss Maitland," and turning, she faced Mr. Richard
Smith of the Guardian.

"Why, how do you do!" the girl said, holding out her hand with frank cordiality.  "I'm very
glad to see you.  Would it flatter you if I said I was thinking of you this morning?"

"It would," said Smith, soberly.  "It does not do to flatter me.  I don't get over it easily.
I don't go so far as to forbid it, you understand, to those who know me, but I recognize it
as being as seductive and alluring and dangerous as any delightful but deadly drug, and I usually
flee from it accordingly."

"Well, there's really no reason why you should flee from it now--unless it is a pecuniary reason,"
said Miss Maitland, smiling.  "But in case you should start to escape, perhaps I had better
modify my statement and say that I was actually thinking of that old harness maker and wondering
when you were coming to tell me about ways and means of keeping him in business."

"I had hoped to do so before this," the other replied.  "I wrote the Guardian agent at Robbinsville
on the same day you visited the office, but I've had nothing to report until to-day."

"And have you now?  What is it?"

"This morning I received a letter from our agent.  He said that the creditors had held a protracted
meeting, and there was one irritating old party who kept suggesting that the poorhouse was
the inevitable solution; but finally arrangements were made by which our old friend can keep
his shop as long as he lives.  They trusteed the business, I believe."

Helen was silent, and for a little space the two walked forward without a word.  At last the
girl lifted her eyes to Smith's a little wistfully.

"I'm glad he can keep his shop," she said; "and yet in one way I'm rather sorry that the creditors
agreed.  I would have liked to have helped the old man, myself, and I think it would have been
rather good fun to have financed a harness business."

"Yes; it would," Smith rejoined, with a laugh.  "But I confess I'm a little relieved.  I'm
afraid that for me it would have meant attaching another mortgage to the old homestead, which
already looks like a popular bill board, it is so plastered with prior liens."

The girl did not know exactly what answer to make to this, so she made none.  Smith presently
went on.

"But I'm sure he would like to know that you would have assisted him if it had been necessary.
If I am ever anywhere near Robbinsville, I shall make a point to see him and tell him."

"Why, I had nothing to do with it!" said the girl.  "It was entirely your plan--I merely said
I'd go halves with you."

"Yes.  But I would really have never done anything by myself," Smith replied frankly.  "And
for a very good reason.  But in any event the old man would be much more interested in thinking
it was you."

"If I am ever in Robbinsville, I shall see that he knows the real facts," said Miss Maitland,
with a slight flush in her cheeks.

"Here is Twenty-third Street," the underwriter said abruptly.  "Where are you bound for, if
I may ask?"

"Nowhere in particular," the girl answered.  She stopped.  "Isn't that a wonderful sight, now,
in the sunlight?"  She indicated the white tower of the Metropolitan Life building, pointing
far up into the clear blue of the eastern sky, across Madison Square.

"Wonderful indeed," agreed Smith, so thoughtfully that his companion glanced at him.  "By the
way, you didn't happen to be here half a century ago, did you?" he asked whimsically.

"No," said Miss Maitland.  "If I had been anywhere, it would have been around Back Bay, I presume."

"Then you miss part of this.  Unless you had been here then, you can't appreciate how marvelous
all this is now," he went on.  "Of course I wasn't here either; but I am a New Yorker, and
I know how it used to look."

"Do you?" she asked with interest.  "And how did it look then?"

"Well, suppose we go back another ten years and make it sixty in all. There was no tower there
and no Flatiron building here beside us.  And there was no open square before us.  Oh, it was
open, but not a square--more of a prairie.  Broadway came up and intersected Fifth Avenue just
as it does to-day.  But on this Flatiron corner there stood just one thing.  And what do you
suppose that was?"

"I couldn't imagine."

"One solitary, lonesome lamp post.  And over there, on the site of that monstrous building,
was the little frame structure that gave the Square its name--the Madison cottage.  And that
was the only building to be seen."

"The only one!  But when was this?"

"In the fifties--in fact, up to eighteen fifty-eight, when they began to put up the Fifth Avenue
Hotel on the same ground.  Next year that was finished, and in eighteen sixty came the Prince
of Wales and honored it by leading the grand march in its great dining hall."

They had crossed Twenty-third Street by this time, and were standing on the memorable corner.
An electric bus whirred by on the east side of Broadway, and Smith drew Helen's notice to it.

"On a post that stood near here," he said, "there used to be a sign that read, 'Buses every
four minutes.'  And if you wanted to go down town, there was exactly one other way besides
taking a bus, and that was to walk."

"And that was quite enough," declared Miss Maitland.

"Well, it served, anyway," Smith conceded.

They walked on up the Avenue.  Finally the girl broke a long pause.

"I was thinking," she said slowly, "that I would like to have you meet Mr. Augustus Lispenard."

"And who is he, may I ask?"

"Well, he is an old gentleman who lives on Washington Square, and you will probably never see
one another, but he seems to love New York more than anything in the world--and you seem to, also."

"Well . . . it's my town," confessed her companion.  "That is, it's not my native town, for
I was born out in Iowa, but I've lived here nearly all my life.  And it's a good town.  Even
a Bostonian will have to admit that," he added laughingly.

"Yes--I admit it," said the Bostonian.  And it struck her that her admission came more readily
than it ever before could have come.  "By the way," she returned, more conventionally, "I'm
afraid I must be taking you out of your way.  What would you have done if you hadn't been kind
enough to act as my guide this afternoon?" she inquired carelessly.

Smith looked across at her.

"To tell the truth, I was thinking of going to the ball game up at the Polo Grounds," he said
promptly; "but I didn't leave the office soon enough.  I'm very much interested in this present
series."

"You're interested in lots of things, I should say," his companion commented.  "Fire insurance
and New York I have found out already.  And here is something else.  Are you really interested
in baseball?"

"I certainly am," said Smith; "and I think every one else ought to be, if he or she has any
interest in this country of ours."

Helen glanced at him in surprise.

"What possible connection can those two things have?" she asked.

"Oh, it's not a thing you can understand unless you've seen it.  From the way you speak, I
presume you've never seen a game of professional baseball."

"No," Miss Maitland replied with docility, "I'm afraid I never have. I've been to a few college
games--Harvard mostly--but I've never seen a professional game.  Is it very different?"

"Absolutely.  You ought to go to one.  You can't really understand the United States of America
until you do."

"Are you serious?  I'm afraid you're just joking with me."

"Not at all.  Why, do you know that baseball is the most American thing in America?  And it's
about the only wholly American thing, as we like to think of America.  There is only one other
place besides the ball ground where the spirit of genuine democracy shows itself, and that
is in politics.  There you will find the high and low together--the judge putting off his ermine
and getting down from the bench elbow to elbow with Tom Radigan, the East Side barkeep, when
the Patrick J. O'Dowd Association of the Eighty-eighth Assembly District gives its annual outing
or its ball.  But that's not true democracy because it's very largely selfish--inspired by
the desire of votes.  Now baseball--that's different.  Inspired by no desire but to see a good
game--and for the home team to win.  Nowhere else in the world can you see democracy in its
fine flower--at its best.  There you can see them all--judges and dock rats, brokers and bricklayers,
cotillion leaders and truck drivers, historians and elevator starters, lawyers and the men
they keep out of jail, college boys, grocers, retired capitalists, and the lady friends of
the whole collection.  You'll find them all there.  Oh, you ought to go to a game yourself.
Then you'd understand."

It seemed to Miss Maitland that this Smith was a very unusual person. And his enthusiasms were
strangely contagious.  Fire insurance, New York, and now baseball, things in none of which
had she ever felt more than a flicker of interest, suddenly, seen through his eyes, assumed
a reality, a vital quality she had never dreamed they could possess.  Was it all the difference
in point of view?

"It isn't because baseball in my opinion does more real good than all the socialistic documents
put out by high-browed agitators will ever do," Smith was continuing, "that I go to it.  Not
at all.  I go to it because I like it, and because I like to yell."

"Do you yell?" asked Miss Maitland of Boston.

"You do--that is, I do," said Smith, tersely.  "At all events, when things go our way."

"And don't you think I would be likely to--yell?"

"Well, hardly, at first," the underwriter answered.  "After a while, probably.  If you'd like
to go and see, though, whether you'd yell or not, I should like awfully to take you."

Thinking the matter over afterward, Helen was at a loss to discover why she had so readily
accepted this somewhat unusual invitation.  To see this young man at an office on a matter
of business was all very well; it was one thing to meet him casually on the street and walk
with him a few blocks up the Avenue--but it was decidedly another to promise she would accompany
him to a professional baseball game.  Baseball, of all things!  Yet she had accepted, and on
the whole she could not seem to be quite sorry that she had.  But it would never do to tell
Aunt Mary. Yet Miss Wardrop must of course be told.  Helen was twenty-five years of age and
her own mistress, but Boston in the blood dies hard.

It was moribund, however, on the afternoon that Smith called to escort her northward to the
field where those idols of Gotham, the Giants, were indulging in a death grapple with their
rivals from Chicago in the closing series of the year, with the National League pennant hanging
on its result.  Her companion had, to be sure, called formally and in due order upon Miss Wardrop
and her niece on an evening of the intervening period, so that Helen felt her sharp New England
sense of the proprieties lulled to a state of pleasing and comfortable coma.

The elevated train which took them to the grounds was jammed to the very doors with cheerfully
suffering humanity, and Miss Maitland, most of whose previous experience with crowds had been
with those decorous gatherings in the subway beneath the Common, regarded the struggling multitude
with covert dismay.

"If you should find the elbows of the populace unduly insinuated into you, don't worry," her
companion advised.  "It will merely be part of your general education.  Getting back to the
soil is nowhere beside the democratic experience you are about to enjoy," he added.

"I--I didn't expect to be quite as democratic as that," the girl said.

"Well, I'll try to see that the more intimate personal demonstrations are spared you," her
escort reassured her.

Presently they left the train, and passing down the platform they joined the crowd that was
now forcing its slow course along the inclosed runway which led to the Polo Grounds.  There
was considerable jostling, much talking and laughter, deep trampling and shuffling of many
feet.  At last Smith reached the window before which for some five minutes he stood in line.

"Of course I could have gotten box seats," he explained as he purchased two score cards; "but
I wanted you to get this thing in its entirety."

"You are the doctor," replied Miss Maitland, cheerfully; at which form of acquiescence her
companion regarded her in such surprise that she burst into a laugh.

"I heard that just now," she confessed; "and it seemed to fit the case. You know you are really
prescribing this game as a cure for acute Bostonitis."

"Right!" said he, laughing, "I fancy I was.  But I didn't mean to be unpleasantly Aesculapian."

"You weren't," she said.  "And do you know, I think you were correct. Even if you didn't consciously
prescribe this as a remedy, I myself admit--or I almost admit--that I was feeling the need
of a tonic a little different from any I had ever tried at home.  And I believe this is it."

Surely it was.  They reached their seats, which they found back of first base, and sat down
between neighbors of uncommon parts.  Next to Helen was a large red man of Hibernian extraction,
with a long upper lip tamed but little by civilization or by razor; on his head he wore a dilapidated
cloth cap; he was, to appearances, driver for an ice company or a brewery.

At Smith's elbow was a small, black-haired Jew with a pock-marked face. In front of them were
four people who could have been the shipping clerk for a hardware house, his fiancée, who presided
conceivably over a switchboard in some uptown hotel, a gentleman who looked like a college
professor and who was probably night clerk in a drug store, and lastly a chunky and well-fed
person who, from his turning at once to the cotton reports, could probably be put down as holding
some responsible position in a Wall Street house.  The farther the eye strayed, the more motley
became the array, the more difficult any generalization.

"It's really useless," said Smith, guessing the girl's thought.  "If any one's missing, it's
because he's home sick in bed.  Now, tell me how much you need to be told."

Nearly everything, it seemed; so for the next ten minutes her companion held forth in a compendious
but concise exordium on the great American game.  During this interim the huge concrete stands
filled entirely, and the populace began to spill over onto the field.

"That means ground rules--hit into the crowd good for only two bases," said several critics,
for the general information of an ambient air fully as well informed as the speakers.

Down on the field the interesting machinery was in process of oiling--the batting and fielding
practice of either side in turn, the pitchers lazily warming up, the motley crew on the side
lines in their amusing and alert play of high-low.  Helen, fascinated by the players' movements,
the accurate interception of stinging grounders, the graceful parabolas of long flies to the
deep outfield, as well as by the spectacle of the orderly base and coaching lines laid out
on the smooth, close-clipped greensward, watched as though in a new medium of sight.  This
was little like anything she had ever seen.

A yell from ten thousand throats announced that the Giants'--and the crowd's--favorite was
to pitch.  Another yell, though less in volume, indicated that the opposing pitcher also was
named and approved, not from any delight in the selection, but merely that the choice was made.
The umpires in their sober blue uniforms took their places; the home team went into the field;
the pitcher picked up the new white ball and settled his foot firmly on the slab--and the game
was on.

It can serve no useful purpose now, when that game is done and its year's pennant determined,
to play over the two hours' traffic of it. Suffice it to say that the tide of battle rose and
fell sufficiently to keep forty thousand delirious spectators on their feet at least one quarter
of the time.  Nothing of Oriental calm about the crowd that day; nothing of passive acceptance
of whatever the Fates might have in store.  Every soul within that enclosure was a rabid partisan,
bound up in the fortune of the fray; and if the concentrated desire of forty thousand minds
could avail aught, the home team should certainly have felt the psychic urge.

But apparently they did not, or perhaps the opposing cohorts felt a far-off urge more potent
still, for the game wore on to the seventh inning with the home team still one run behind.

"Seventh inning; everybody up!" twenty thousand informed the other twenty thousand.  And everybody
rose, the forty thousand almost as one man.

"Now then, you Tim!" shrieked a voice behind Helen's ear.  And Tim responded with a two-base
hit to the left field crowd.  Another sharp crack of the ball against the bat, and men running
at lightning speed, one to first base, one desperately rounding third and toward the home plate
with the run needed to tie the score.  But the Chicago team were busy as well.  As from a catapult
the ball shot home to the catcher, waiting astride the rubber.

A flash, a slide, a cloud of dust.  Then the umpire, flapping a flippant thumb skyward.  Then
a berserker roar of rage, a pandemonium of fury beside which Babel was a soundless desert.
And from leather-like lungs four inches from Helen's ear, in a voice which could have brought
the glad news from Ghent to Aix without leaving the first-named city at all, came:--

"Hey, you big wart!  The bush for yours!"

But the umpire thus unflatteringly described and assigned was obdurate, the run did not count,
and the game went on.  However, it was won in that inning by the combination of two more safe
hits, and the checked paeans rang their fill.  If there was a heart in all that great amphitheater
not beating to the tune of the forty thousand, it must have been some unfortunate outlander
who could only watch, reserving his own delirium until some more fortunate era beneath more
friendly stars.

But at last, when all was over and the great crowd reluctantly dissolved, swarming the diamond,
Smith and Miss Maitland sought the exit in silence.

"When it puts one in such intimate touch with forty thousand of your fellow beings," said Smith,
reflectively, "it seems worth while, now and then, to be what is commonly termed a low-brow."

"Is it really worth while," asked Helen, "to be anything else?"

CHAPTER XI

If Mr. Edward Eggleston Murch had had nothing to do but attend the meetings of the various
boards of which he was a director, his time would still have been reasonably well employed
and he would have enjoyed an income sufficient at least to keep him in cigars of the standard
to which his eminence entitled him.  Mr. Murch's private secretary held a position requiring
quick-wittedness and suavity in no common degree.  Hardly a day went by that the ring of the
phone did not serve as preamble for some such colloquy as this:

"Hello.  Mr. Murch's office?"

"Yes."

"Mr. Murch in?"

"No.  Can I do anything for you?"

"The W., T., and G. have called their annual meeting for election of officers on Friday the
sixth.  How about ten-thirty?  Is that all right with Mr. Murch?"

"Wait a minute.  Ten-thirty, you said?  No, Mr. Murch has the International Corkscrew meeting
at ten.  Can't they push W., T., and G. into the afternoon?"

"I'll let you know later.  Good-by."

And later it was arranged to suit Mr. Murch.  If there were a pie in Mr. Murch's vicinity which
Mr. Murch's finger was not in, it was, if not proof positive, strong circumstantial evidence
that the pie was of a most inferior order of succulence; and Mr. Murch was a fairly good judge,
being himself chairman of the finance committee of the United States Pie Company.  He was a
director in two banks, three trust companies, several railroads, at least four mining companies
of the immensely profitable kind whose stock is never offered to the general public, besides
innumerable industrial and general commercial concerns of every sort, color, and description,
the sole similarity between them being their translucent money-making attributes.  He was,
on the other hand, a trustee of an art museum which was liberally assisted by contributors
other than Mr. Murch, whose assistance was administrative rather than pecuniary; and he was
on the executive committee of a charity organization society which under his astute management
bade fair to be more than self-supporting, and there was really no valid reason to the contrary,
for it transacted a very considerable business in sawed and split wood which it sold at current
prices after paying each of its unfortunate employees twenty-two cents and an indescribably
bad dinner for eight hours' hard work in the wood yard.  Mr. Murch was also interested in a
chain of blue-front restaurants, and a line of South American freighters, and last but not
least, he was the heaviest stockholder and most potent factor in the management of the Salamander
Fire Insurance Company.

The Salamander was as exactly the antithesis of the Guardian as it was possible to conceive.
Where the Guardian was conservative, the Salamander was ultra-radical; where the Guardian wrote
a million and three quarters yearly in premiums, the Salamander, though its surplus was rather
less than that of the other company, wrote nearly two millions and a half.  In short the Salamander
gambled, and played to win, and as a matter of fact it usually did win by sheer audacity. 
It had never made any money out of its underwriting, that real test of company efficiency;
but four years out of five the daring manipulation of its assets in Wall Street--politely termed
the slight rearrangement of some of its investments--yielded it a handsome profit.  Its dividend
rate was more than twice that of the Guardian, and in some years, when losses were heavy, it
failed to earn its dividend and was obliged to take the money for its payment out of its already
narrow surplus.

The President of the Salamander was an obliging, disingenuous, rather weak individual of Mr.
Murch's own selection.  His name was Wellwood, and the less said of his character and attainments
the better.  Mr. Wellwood's mastery of the conditions of his business had never been especially
deep, and during the past year a swelling penchant for fast horses, and indeed for acceleration
of all kinds, had rather gotten the better of him.  And Mr. Murch, concernedly going over the
figures which showed the present condition of the Salamander's finances, felt a chill of doubt
striking into his usually impassive veins.

"You've been losing money for the company faster than I can make it," he said coldly to Wellwood.

"Well, it's been an awfully bad year--losses have been terrific," stammered the underwriting
executive, anxious to placate the god of his car.

"They're all bad years with you.  Leave these papers with me; I want to go over them again."

Wellwood slunk out.  The presidency of the Salamander, involving as it did occasional interviews
of a nature similar to this with Mr. Murch, was no sinecure.  Mr. Wellwood frequently debated
whether it would not be better to listen to the siren voices of the agricultural weeklies with
their alluring refrain of "back to the soil"; but the facilities for his favorite dissipations
were painfully inadequate in the rural districts, and besides he was a city man born and bred,
and while he knew how to take hold of a shovel, he would probably have stood askance and aghast
before a scythe.  So he hung on, hoping against hope for something--almost anything--to happen.
To be sure his own comparative incompetence was to blame for the company's underwriting record,
but that was a matter beyond his control.

It was perhaps an hour after Mr. Wellwood's departure when the card of another caller was brought
to Mr. Murch by the efficient office boy.

"Show him in," he said.

A man in a light fall overcoat entered the room, nodding to the capitalist as he did so, but
turning back almost immediately to attend to the cautious closing of the door.

"Sit down, won't you?" said Mr. Murch, carelessly.  He raised his eyes to the door.  "Anybody
out there?" he inquired.  "I mean any one that knows you?"

"No," the caller replied.

"Well, it doesn't matter about any one but Wellwood.  But it would be better not to have him
know anything about your having been here."

"Why?  What do you care?" queried the other.

"No need of superfluous friction and unpleasantness, that's all.  If we--agree, he'll find
out everything soon enough; if we don't, no call to excite him."

"No doubt you're right," assented the visitor, lightly.  He had by this time removed his overcoat
and laid it over the arm of a convenient couch.  He then selected a chair near Mr. Murch's
own but facing that gentleman squarely, and sat down.

"Well, I'm ready to talk business," he said.

"And I," rejoined the other, easily.  But he made no move to begin. After a strategic pause
wherein it was made clear that he was determined not to open the conversation, his caller began
to speak.

"Looking over the figures, I see," he suggested.

"Just running through them.  They don't seem so bad, on the whole--in fact, rather better than
I expected.  Wellwood hasn't done so badly this year, after all, considering how heavy the
losses have been all over the country--especially in the South."

The other did not reply.  Each man fully understood that the other was temporizing, hoping
to gain whatever advantage might accrue from letting the other make the initial play.  But
Mr. Murch was the older and the less nervous, and had himself better in hand.  Finally the
visitor spoke.

"Well, I don't suppose you sent for me merely to tell me that," he said abruptly.  "Go ahead--make
your proposition; there's no use beating about the bush between us."  He picked up an ornamental
paper cutter from the capitalist's desk and examined it with exaggerated care.

Mr. Murch took his time.  He reflectively bit the end off a long cigar, and reached for a match
box.

"I'm not sure that my mind's sufficiently made up to put a definite proposal up to you," he
said, striking the match thoughtfully.  "As I say, Wellwood hasn't been doing so badly--comparatively.
And it hurts a company to make a change in its presidency--it disturbs the whole organization,
especially when an outsider is brought in over the heads of all the subordinates.  We have
several promising men that might be disaffected by such a move.  No, I don't believe I'm decided,
at this time, on such radical action."

"Then I'll come again, when you do decide," said the other, and promptly rose to his feet.

In essence all this very much resembled the way an Algerian curio merchant conducts a bargain.

"Still, it would do no harm to talk the situation over a little to-day," suggested Mr. Murch.

The other man sat down again.

"Look here," he said, "you know what I'm here for.  You're looking for a man to take charge
of the management of the Salamander.  You've looked into the affairs of the company and you
know there isn't any one in that office--Wellwood or any of his understudies--that really knows
his business.  Now you think I'm the man you want, but it's your opener.  It's for you to say
what you expect done, and how much you'll give to get it done.  You tell me that, and I'll
tell you first whether I think I'm able to do it, and second whether I'll take it at your price."

For Mr. F. Mills O'Connor was sufficiently shrewd to anticipate that the presidency of the
Salamander would be an empty honor unless it could be gained on terms which would free its
incumbent from the immediate yoke of Mr. Murch.  O'Connor did not intend to be a second Wellwood,
with Old Man of the Sea Murch riding him to the grave.

The wisdom of his outspoken decision was proven by the altered tone in which the capitalist
now said:--

"All right, Mr. O'Connor.  No time like the present.  We'll go into it."

And for nearly two hours they went into it.  They discussed the subject of fire insurance from
top to bottom; the amount of premium a company could safely accept in comparison to its resources,
lines in conflagration districts, reinsurance treaties, relations with various unions, boards,
and conferences, and underwriting in its relation to finance.

"So far as I can gather--and it's the general impression," said the Guardian official, "the
Salamander has lost most of its money in the big cities.  And you know as well as I do that
the hope of making any money for the company consists in the chance of getting a profitable
business from such cities as New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, and St. Louis.  I don't
believe your five-year record shows a dollar's profit from any one of those places, yet nearly
every well managed company has taken good money out of them.  Wellwood knows it.  He knows
the kind of business he gets doesn't pay, but he doesn't know where or how to get the kind
that does pay."

"Perhaps that may be so," agreed Mr. Murch, cautiously.

"Well, I do know where to get it," rejoined his visitor, "and I also know--what is much more
vital and to the point--how."

"And how is that?" inquired his host with innocent curiosity.

"When you've made your proposition, I'll tell you," said the other, with a smile.  "I'll amplify
at the proper time."

"Oh, very well, then," replied the capitalist, apologetically.  "Very well."  But at this last
sticking point he temporized again.  His caller gave him no help, but waited in silence until
he was ready.

"Mr. O'Connor," said Mr. Murch, "I have a high opinion of your underwriting ability.  It is
pretty well understood that you have had immediate charge of the underwriting of the Guardian
for some years past, and they have been much more profitable years for your company than for ours."

He paused.

"The figures show that," said the other man.

"I do not conceal from you the fact that we are not wholly satisfied with Mr. Wellwood's operations.
I have talked the matter over unofficially with two or three of my fellow directors, and I
believe they would ratify officially the offer which I am going to make you. This offer is
made upon certain agreements, restrictions, and presumptions.  It is made contingent on your
ability to carry out these agreements--in short, to deliver the goods."

"I understand," said O'Connor, with composure.

"The offer of which I speak is based on your taking the presidency of the Salamander, with
a five-year contract, at a salary of twenty thousand dollars a year.  You will be required
to purchase as a matter of good faith--backing your entry, as it were--a certain amount of
the company's stock; indeed, I presume you would wish to do so, and that is a feature that
can be easily arranged.  And we, of the Salamander, want a man qualified to turn the company
into a money maker, and who can assure us at the same time of a reasonable increase in our
premium income--say in the five years, from two and a half up to three millions."

O'Connor smiled rather cynically.

"You don't want much, do you?" he observed.  "Those are modest requests."

"And," continued Mr. Murch, disregarding the interruption, "we wish to be assured by reasonable
show of proof that the new business will be of a class that will be more profitable than the
old--in other words, that it will not increase the company's present loss ratio."

"Which is quite high enough already," commented the other, dryly.

"In short, Mr. O'Connor, we must be assured not only that you can secure this increase in income,
but we feel that we are entitled to be shown where it is likely to come from, and how you are
going to stop the loss on our present business, before the matter goes before our directorate."

The Guardian's Vice-President rose, and stood looking down at Mr. Murch from across the table.

"You need me, Mr. Murch," he said.  "I don't have to tell you that. You're supposed to be an
expert in picking winners, although you made a bad break on Wellwood.  I'm the right man for
your job, and you knew it when you sent for me.  And your offer is a handsome one--I'll admit
that.  I'll admit it so willingly that I'll come out and lay my cards--and yours--on the table.
I'll put it to you straight."

"Yes?" replied the capitalist, inquiringly.

"Yes.  What you mean is this.  I've had charge of the underwriting of the Guardian for seven
years.  Many of its best agents look on me as the company; the Guardian is just a name, but
the man they do business with is F. Mills O'Connor, and I'll guarantee that a lot of the best
of them will keep on doing business with me, no matter with what concern I'm associated.  Now
the Guardian has as fine a class of big city business on its books as any company of its size
in the field, and I'll bet that in the big cities, where you've lost your money, its business
is not only better but larger than the Salamander's.  In New York and Boston and Philadelphia
you couldn't beat it to save your life.  What you want to know is whether I can get equally
good stuff for the Salamander, and I want to tell you that I can.  And in some pretty important
places I can get the identical business, you understand.  You want to know how I'm going to
get it.  Well, what I just told you about a lot of agents keeping on with F. Mills O'Connor
is one factor, but there are several others, and I'd rather not mention them until I take charge.
But you need have no fear that they cannot be successfully utilized.  Do I make myself clear?"

Mr. Murch smiled a deprecatory smile.

"Quite," he said.  "In fact, you put it a little more bluntly than I had expected."

"Well, then, if you want to ratify this arrangement at the next meeting of your board, it will
be all right with me, and moreover I'll guarantee you personally that within a year the Salamander
will be taking over the Guardian's business in at least three of the principal cities of the
United States."

"The next meeting is on Monday," said Mr. Murch.

"Very well.  Ratify it then, but keep it strictly under cover for two months.  If I hear from
you that the deal has gone through, I'll start laying my wires.  This is the first of October.
Don't let anything out until the first of December.  Then I'll resign, and come to the Salamander
the first of the new year--possibly before that."

"How so?"

"Oh, I've a notion that when I resign, Mr. Wintermuth will say that I needn't remain the customary
thirty days; I fancy he'll let me out at once."

A smile, none too pleasant, crossed the lips of the Guardian official. Business was business,
of course, and a man was entitled to use his personal influence to advance himself; but he
scarcely relished the idea of practically looting the company for which he had worked for a
good many years.  O'Connor's fiber was not of the tenderest, but he had his intervals of conscientiousness,
when his brain saw the correct ethics, even if his hand did not always follow.

Mr. Murch got up from his chair.

"I'll call you on the phone Monday, after our meeting," he said.

"I shall be at the office until five."

They parted.

Criminologists assert, from many years' observation of many men in many lands, that no man
positively desires to become a criminal.  So little does the average man wish it, that it is
usually difficult, even in the case of the most confirmed lawbreaker, to persuade him that
he actually is or has been criminal in intent, no matter what his acts may have been.

This state of affairs is equally true in those higher grades of society where instincts are
less passionate.  Just as the man who kills his king or his father holds himself absolutely
innocent of any wrong intent, so the unhappy parasite who steals his wife's earnings for drink,
or the bookkeeper who makes away with the contents of the firm's cash drawer in order to play
the races, believes himself to be unfortunate only, and more sinned against than sinning. 
No matter how much of a scoundrel a man may be, his self-analysis brings him far short of the
correct degree of turpitude.

Mr. O'Connor was not a villain or a criminal.  He was not, according to the standard of many,
a dishonest man.  But he was not an honest one. He had several weaknesses, the chief among
which was venal ambition; and of courage, that quality which makes all other qualities seem
just a little tawdry and futile, he had none except in a broad, physical sense.  He was not,
of course, afraid of the dark, but he was decidedly afraid of James Wintermuth; and when on
Monday noon the telephone rang at the call of Mr. Murch, it is not too much to say that he
was momentarily shaken.

"Suppose you drop around to the Club in about twenty minutes," was the suave suggestion of
the man at the other end of the line.

"For a moment," the Guardian's Vice-President agreed hastily.  "For a moment," he repeated,
as he replaced the receiver on its hook.  It were much better that he and Mr. Murch be not
seen together in public until the meat was ready for the fire.  And so it was the briefest
of interviews that took place between them in the big smoking room.  A few words, concluding
with a handshake and a "Congratulate you, Mr. President," and the incident was closed.  Even
had the lynx eyes of Simeon Belknap himself perceived this meeting, he could hardly have found
significance in the episode.  And an event in the insurance world without significance to Mr.
Belknap was a rara avis indeed.

Mr. O'Connor betrayed that night, aside from his customary lack of the refinements of courtesy,
the first indication of human weakness that his household had noted for some time past.  For
a considerable part of the night he lay awake, tossing about in his bed until his long-suffering
wife thought he must be ill.

"Is anything the matter?" came her solicitous voice through the dark doorway.  And her husband
answered irritably:--

"No.  Don't bother about me.  I'm all right."

Whether this nocturnal disquiet was the last throe of an expiring sense of honor and decency,
or whether it was ambition burning in the blood, it is impossible to say.  Quite likely it
was a little of each.  Mr. Wintermuth had been a good friend to O'Connor; still, a man must
needs look first after his own interest; no one was apt to butter his bread for him.  Sophistry
old as the world.

Nevertheless, when morning dawned, the travail of the night had left no mark on Mr. O'Connor's
brow.  His wife, accustomed from many years of sky searching to look for trouble there, saw
the unwrinkled expanse and took heart.  Her husband answered her polite morning inquiries with
sufficient attention, although he was palpably preoccupied and in no mood for casual conversation.

The fact was that his mind was made up and his plan of campaign chosen, and he was now bending
all his thought and energies upon the manner and details of attack.  There was no time to lose,
and the iron would never be hotter than now.  Accordingly, when he had disposed of the accumulation
of morning mail at his desk, he walked thoughtfully over to President Wintermuth's office.
In response to that gentleman's invitation he entered and seated himself near the desk, holding
in his hand a number of papers pinned together.  From his expression it would have seemed that
disquieting reflections occupied his mind.

"What's the matter?  Loss?" inquired his chief, taking the cue O'Connor had proffered.

"No," said the Vice-President, slowly.  He glanced down at the papers that he held.  "Mr. Wintermuth,"
he said, "what is your opinion of--or no, let me put it another way: how deeply are we committed
to the Eastern Conference?"

"What do you mean--how deeply are we committed?"

"Just that.  We were among the original subscribers to the Eastern Conference agreement, as
you are aware.  What I want to know is whether we are bound to a more rigid observance of its
rules than other companies that are members of it."

"We are not, sir," returned the President.  "Of course we are not.  Why do you ask?"

"Well, sir, I hardly like to say so, but for a long time I have been growing to feel that our
strict adherence to our obligations was affecting our business unfavorably at some points.
In other words, I have been growing more and more sure that we are too honest--comparatively."

"How is that?  How is that?" said Mr. Wintermuth, sharply.

"Perhaps I should say that some of our associates in the Conference are not quite honest enough,
at least in the construction they put upon their pledges."

"You will have to be more specific, sir," returned the President, somewhat sternly.

"Very well, sir; I will be as specific as you please.  Bluntly, then, I know that at least
three of the leading Conference companies are violating the conditions of the Conference agreement,
which they are pledged to observe, in no less than four cities in New England, and probably
a dozen in New York and Pennsylvania.  Some of them are in agencies where the Guardian is represented,
and it's hurting us.  I know it to be a fact."

"But I thought we went into this recently in New York State.  I remember there was a lot of
talk about crookedness, and Smith went up to find out what was going on.  We made some charges,
didn't we?  And didn't we get a satisfactory answer?"

"Satisfactory, I presume, to the companies that made it.  And possibly satisfactory to Smith,
who seemed to me at the time, I confess, a little too easily satisfied for a man with his eyes
open.  But not to me.  I wasn't satisfied at all, or rather I was entirely satisfied in my
own mind that we were being sacrificed to our own uprightness."

"What companies are these that are breaking their pledges?  How are they doing it?  And where?"

"Mr. Wintermuth, I am absolutely convinced that three Conference companies in the Nolan agency,
who represent us at Syracuse, are paying at least ten per cent excess commission on preferred
business without going through the formality of demanding even a receipt for it.  I know it
to be a fact that at Trenton, New Jersey, the special agent of one of the biggest American
companies--also a Conference member--makes a monthly visit for the purpose of putting into
the agent's hands spot cash equal to the amount of the agent's illegitimate excess commissions
for that month.  The agent deducts his regular commission in his account, and gets this additional
amount in cash, so that he gets a good deal more than what we can pay him under the rules.
Is it any wonder, then, that our business is dropping off in these offices?  And these are
two cities only.  I could name a dozen.  That is why I asked you how deeply we were committed
to the Conference."

The President rose, his eyes flashing.

"If these are facts capable of substantiation, we will be committed only until our resignation
can take effect.  I believe it takes thirty days' notice for a company to terminate its membership.
If these cases are typical of others, and you can prove them, exactly thirty-one days later
the Eastern Conference will lack one of its charter members."

"Oh, I can prove them, all right.  Proof is pretty easily secured--circumstantial evidence
enough to hang a man with any jury. But I didn't really think you'd look at it in quite this
light, sir.  I had not come to the point of recommending that the company withdraw from the
Conference.  It struck me that before we made that move, certain expedients might be tried."

"Expedients?  Such as what, sir?"

"Well, I thought possibly you might be willing to--meet a few of these most open cases of competition
with similar methods--"

He stopped, at the expression of his chief's face.

"You thought, did you, that because these men, my competitors, have no respect for their publicly
pledged word, I would be willing to be equally indulgent.  Mr. O'Connor, you have served a
long time under me, and I am surprised at you!  When James Wintermuth gets to the point where
he is unable to live up to his promises, it will be time for him to quit.  We are not in that
business, sir."

The Vice-President summoned a forced smile to his lips.

"I think you misunderstood me, sir," he replied smoothly.  "I would not myself suggest special
commission deals at these places.  Of course I agree with you that we should always respect
our pledges.  But at the same time it struck me that--"

"I don't want to hear what struck you," retorted Mr. Wintermuth, with unwonted asperity.  "Let
me see the proofs--I will take the necessary action.  Is that what you have there--those papers?"

"One or two of them, sir.  My principal ones naturally come from word of mouth.  For example,
I have talked with responsible men who have seen the Trenton agent's bank deposit slips for
certain sums, dated, month after month, coincidently with the visit of a certain special agent.
I can give you all the proofs any one could wish--if you need any more after what you have
in your hand."

Mr. Wintermuth turned to his desk to indicate that the interview was over and he wished to
be alone.  And it was a well-satisfied conspirator who retired to his own office.  Privately
reflecting that the deed was as good as done, Mr. O'Connor returned almost instantly to his
ruling passion of caution.  Now to conceal or to make vague as far as possible his own intent
in the matter.

"Ask Mr. Smith to step here a moment," he said to Jimmy, and a shadow of a smile crossed his
face.  The idea of using Smith to help serve as a foil for himself had an element of grim humor
to which Mr. O'Connor was not entirely blind.  Smith, of all men, by all means.

With a troubled expression on his face he turned to meet his subordinate.

"I've been talking to the chief about the crooked work in the Conference," he said.  "Trenton
and Syracuse and some of the rotten spots.  I'm afraid I made it a little strong.  I swear
I didn't imagine he'd take the thing so much to heart or I believe I'd have kept still entirely."

"What did you tell him for?" asked the General Agent, not especially impressed.

"Well, I was getting pretty tired of seeing some of those fellows put it over us, and I thought
perhaps he'd let us fight fire with--well, fireworks.  Instead of which, he flew up to the
ceiling.  He wants to get out."

"Get out?  Out of the Eastern Conference?" Smith inquired with more interest.

"Yes.  And such a move might be justified, strictly speaking, but it seems to me a little extreme--just
a little uncalled for.  There are a few crooked companies in every agreement, concerns that
take advantage of the good faith of the rest--like the Protection of Newark--but after all,
even under present conditions, we're getting about as much business as we're entitled to, and
pretty nearly as much as we're willing to write.  What do you think?"

Smith looked sharply at his superior officer.

"Why do you put it up to me?" he asked.  "If the President has decided to get out, that settles
it--out we go."

"Oh, he hasn't absolutely decided.  I thought I'd tell you about it, in case he asked you what
you thought."

"I see," replied the General Agent, thoughtfully, and said no more.

"Well?" queried O'Connor, expectantly, after a moment.

"If he asks me, I'll tell him what I think.  Is that all, sir?"

"Yes, that's about all."

The Vice-President, gazing a trifle uneasily at Smith's departing back, somehow felt that he
could not flatter himself on having done what he wished toward the covering of his tracks.
But, as it chanced, Mr. O'Connor's elaborate mechanism for befogging his trail was entirely
wasted, for the President, so far as could be learned, said not a thing on the subject to anybody.
He took home the papers O'Connor had left him, and studied them, presumably alone, for several
days.  He did not seek to cross-examine O'Connor's witnesses.  From something that gentleman
had said, he had gained the impression that outside parole evidence would probably be prejudiced,
and he felt that the documents in his possession were sufficient to govern his verdict.  He
conceived that here was a matter for calm, deliberate judgment, for the exercise of the critical,
judicial faculty, which he felt he possessed in a high degree.  This was not precisely vanity;
it was rather the long habit of undisputed dicta.  He felt that here was an excellent opportunity
for justifying his reputation for independence of decision and action.

So Mr. Wintermuth, pondering in silence for nearly a fortnight, left his Vice-President stretched
on the rack of uncertainty without a glance in his direction.  To all the tentative efforts
O'Connor made to reopen the subject, his chief returned a curt refusal.  There was nothing
to do but to wait, and O'Connor, with increasingly bad grace, waited.

Not until the close of the second week was his suspense ended, and then not by any intimation
from headquarters.  Mr. Wintermuth had acted overnight, and had given his verdict directly
to the press; and thus it was that the Vice-president, opening one morning the Journal of Commerce
to the insurance page, found himself confronted by the headline:--

"Guardian Quits the Conference."

Mr. O'Connor sank back into his chair with a sigh of relief, and carefully read and reread
the article from beginning to end.  It was very brief, stating simply that Mr. Wintermuth had
sent to the Conference the resignation of the Guardian, for "reasons which could be better
imagined than discussed," and proposed henceforward to conduct the operations of the company
without reference to any "unequally restrictive restrictions."

It was with positive buoyancy that the Vice-president delivered the paper into the hands of
Jimmy, for its processional through the office.

CHAPTER XII

It was late afternoon in the drawing room of Miss Wardrop's house in Washington Square.  The
short November dusk was fading into night, and outside in the old Square, the street lights
gleamed in the frosty air. In the fireplace, before which two people were sitting, a wood fire
crackled, throwing fantastic shadows about the old room.

Dinner at Miss Wardrop's was at half after seven.  Just why Mr. Smith should have considered
it necessary to drop in, on his way home from the Guardian, could no doubt have been better
explained had his face not been shaded by his hand.  The face in the room best worth seeing,
however, was not so shaded, and Smith manifested no displeasure at the fact.  He himself sat
on the chimney seat, and he appeared to be less talkative than usual.  His reticence may or
may not have been understood by Miss Maitland, but if it were, she chose to pretend otherwise.

"Why are you so very silent?" she finally asked.  "Do you know, it isn't at all flattering.
One might think your thoughts were a thousand miles away from here."

"Well, perhaps some of them are," Smith confessed.  "And I must really ask your pardon for
thinking far away, when I am with you.  And yet," he smiled slightly, "perhaps you also came
in as an important factor in the background of those far-off thoughts."

"If you are trying to stimulate my curiosity, you have been quite successful," said Miss Maitland,
and she waited expectantly.

"Do you remember Mr. O'Connor, the Vice-President of the Guardian?" Smith asked abruptly.

"Yes.  He was the one, wasn't he, who came into Mr. Wintermuth's office for a minute?"

"Yes."

"You say he is Vice-president of the company?  Is he a great friend of yours?  Perhaps my first
impression was wrong, but I don't believe I liked Mr. O'Connor very much--not nearly so much
as that amusing Mr. Cuyler, or nice, polite Mr. Wintermuth, or queer, silent Mr. Bartels."

"Well, between you and me, I don't believe your first impression was far from correct.  I don't
like O'Connor much, myself," said Smith. "More than that, I know he is unfriendly to me.  But
that is not the point.  The point is that he is up to something, and I don't know what it is.
And I've got to find out what it is.  That's what I was thinking of."

"What kind of a thing do you mean?  And what has he done to make you think so?" the girl asked.

"He has succeeded in persuading the President to take the Guardian out of the Eastern Conference.
And I can't figure out why.  He's got some ulterior motive, but I can't guess what it is."

"What is the Eastern Conference?"

"It's a sort of association of insurance companies doing business in New England, New York,
and other Atlantic states.  Most of the best companies belong to it.  It's a sort of offensive
and defensive alliance.  It keeps down the general expense of conducting business by limiting
the rate of commission its members can pay to any agent, and it supplies inspections to its
members and does a lot of other things. But it really isn't a question of what the Conference
does for its members so much as a question of what it may do to the Guardian, if the Guardian
gets out.  There's considerable quiet coercion about such a union, you see--the Conference
companies can make it very interesting for an outsider, if they choose to do so.  And after
a company has been operating on the inside for a good many years, it's hard to jump the fence
and make so radical a change.  It upsets your organization."

"But why should the Conference try to make you belong?  And will they attempt to hurt you if
you resign?"

"I don't know.  Possibly not.  That will soon be seen.  But what I can't fathom is why O'Connor,
after all these years, should now lay his wires to get the Guardian out.  He never does an
important thing like that for nothing; he's got some idea in the back of his head.  I feel
certain of that from the elaborate pains he took to make me think it was not at his instigation
that the thing was done.  But I know better, for I know O'Connor."

"Haven't you any clew at all?"

"Not really.  They're all too vague.  I can't for the life of me see what O'Connor has to gain
by getting the Guardian out of the Conference.  What good can it possibly do him personally?"

"I feel sure you'll hit on the correct solution at last," Helen said thoughtfully, "because
I have a distinct remembrance that one of your chance shots went right to the mark when Charlie
Wilkinson was trying to get Mr. Hurd to insure his street car company.  Charlie thought it
was tremendously clever of you.  It was the first time I had ever heard of you."

Smith looked at her quickly.  Feeling rather than seeing the glance, the girl hastily continued:--

"I wonder whether Mr. Hurd ever decided to carry insurance."

"I wonder, too," the underwriter agreed, with amusement.  "If cool nerve counts for anything,
your friend Wilkinson ought to have come out all right.  I must ask Mr. Osgood about it the
next time I go to Boston."

"If he does succeed, I'm sure he'll feel it was quite largely due to your suggestion.  And
that is why I think you'll eventually solve the mystery of Mr. O'Connor's conduct."

"I wish I could believe it.  But I seem to be as far away as when I began to speculate.  The
only things I can think of don't appear to me to be reasonable."

"What are some of them?  Could I understand them?"

"Better than I, very likely.  Since I've gotten you so far into this horribly businesslike
affair, I may as well go all the way through.  As I said, I can't see how O'Connor can personally
get any advantage out of this in any conceivable way, so long as he stays with the Guardian."

"But suppose he himself resigned--what then?  Or don't people ever leave the Guardian?"

"Oh, minor employees, of course--they're always shifting about.  But no one of any importance
has left the company, except by old age or death, for a good many years.  Nobody knows exactly
why, but it's a good company, and every one just stays.  And besides, if O'Connor got out to
go with some one else, what good would this move have done him?"

"Isn't it just possible that he has gotten the impression the company has treated him badly,
and he is trying to do something to hurt it before he leaves?"

"Pure malignance?  Hardly that.  And besides, if that were so, why should Mr. Wintermuth accept
his suggestion?  No, I can't believe that is it."

"What could Mr. O'Connor do, supposing that he left the Guardian and went with some other company?"

"That's another thing.  As things are now, I don't see how he could do much to hurt us.  It
would be a bit awkward for us, I don't mind saying, if he went with some Conference company,
for some of the insiders are none too scrupulous in their methods against non-Conference competitors.
Of course, if the Conference should pass a separation rule--but no, that's impossible."

"What is a separation rule?"

"Why, it's a kind of boycott.  The Conference might pass a rule reducing the commission of
any agent who also represented non-Conference companies.  You see, most agents represent several
companies--a good, big agency may perhaps represent fifteen or twenty--and the Conference companies
are in the majority in most of the agencies where the Guardian is represented.  It would mean
that those agents would have to choose between resigning us and having their commissions reduced,
and there is very little doubt as to which course they would take.  The Conference might even
forbid its companies to be represented at all in mixed agencies--where both Conference and
non-Conference companies were located--and then those agents would either have to throw us
out or lose the bulk of their companies."

"But couldn't they get other non-Conference companies to fill up their agencies and keep the
Guardian?"

"No--hardly.  There are only a few really high-class companies on the outside.  And most of
the agents couldn't afford to change.  They would simply have to let us go; and that would
mean that we'd have to make our agency plant practically all over again."

"And that would be hard to do, I suppose?"

"It would be just about equivalent to building a new company, for the company's agents are
the company."

"But you say it's impossible they should pass this rule.  Why?"

"Several reasons.  It's pretty arbitrary--it looks a little like a combination in restraint
of trade, although company organizations in a lot of states have separation rules.  But I doubt
whether the Eastern Conference has the backbone to put such a rule in effect.  Besides, it's
scarcely worth while as things now stand--almost all the good companies are in the Conference,
and as for the rest, they're either used to them or they feel they're hardly worth bothering
about."

"But the Guardian is, isn't it?"

"Yes," said Smith, thoughtfully, "I suppose it is.  Still, what good would it do O'Connor?
That's what I keep coming back to, because I'm absolutely certain he wouldn't have put this
thing through without some personal end in sight."

"Might not he be disinterested, for once?"

"Not O'Connor," said Smith, dryly.  "But good heavens! haven't we talked intrigues and cabals
and plots long enough?  There are one or two other things in life, you know--I've hardly given
you a chance to speak, and I've been holding forth like an unsuccessful detective reporting
to his superior officer."

And the conversation drifted into other channels.

A great city is a wonderful place in a thousand ways, not the least of which is its magical
influence upon human relationships.  Perhaps its mere size, the multiplicity of its sights
and sounds, its effect of isolating an individual in the midst of an almost impenetrable throng--perhaps
these things are chiefly responsible.  But it is certain that, in common with the desert and
the sea, a city like London or Paris or New York carries in its very atmosphere a sense of
almost devotional reality, of almost the pure essence of life.  In the very shrine of the unreal
and the artificial, reality grips with a power elsewhere unknown.  Beyond all the curious striving
for the immaterial, the sense of the utter futility of that very effort becomes wholly clear.
Follies and affectations may be sought with added fervor for the mind and the body, but the
want of them is stilled in the soul.

Since this is so, in the very home of conventions and conventionalities these artificial ideas
become more palpably ridiculous.  Surrounded by needless man-made fetters, one sees them to
be inane.  The wind that blows between the worlds blows in the world's great cities, and it
blows, for their lovers at least, the cobwebs from the heart.  What is natural is seen to be
right, and what is real is seen to be true.

To Smith, lover of his city as he was, these truths were peculiarly obvious; and to Helen Maitland,
seeing them largely from the angle of Smith's vision, they became the truth no less.  She remembered
with some surprise her quite recent dislike of New York, and her even more recent chill of
distaste and dread, when she came from the Park, which had checked for the moment the liking
she felt springing to life.  Of course it was loneliness; but here was a man who had told her
that New York's loneliness was one of its greatest charms, and who regarded the apparent heartlessness
of the city as one of its most inspiring tonics. Somehow, and apparently most naturally, she
found it was coming to seem so to her.

If a man wishes to interest a woman, he does well to speak to her of his enthusiasms; and if
he desires to alienate her interest, he will do well to forget them.  Smith, who cared deeply
for New York, and who was moving unconsciously along the sunny way that led to Helen Maitland,
found that never two enthusiasms welded so readily as these.  Part of this, no doubt, was due
to the city's own influence, but probably the greater part was due to his own genuine understanding
and affection for the town itself.

And Helen had not been the readiest of converts, for in the first place, coming as she did
from Boston, her sympathies were not with the larger city.  She had found its confusion rather
tiresome, its contrasts perhaps a little crude, its poverty somewhat distressing, and its wealth
a trifle vulgar.  With Smith, a new viewpoint was hers, and her old conceptions, which now
seemed hopelessly provincial, melted like mist before the sun.

Smith knew his city as a maestro knows his instrument, and their voyages together were like
incursions into an enchanted space where time was not.  He seemed to know exactly what had
been in every nook and corner of the town at every period of its career.  Once they stood on
Broadway near Columbia University, on whose granite wall was fixed the plate which told of
Washington's muster upon those very heights; and Smith had built up for her, not as an historian,
but as an actor in the drama, the picture before her eyes.  He showed her the old Jumel Mansion
farther up town, and they went back together a century and a half to all the strange sights
those old halls had seen.

Perhaps the softest spot in Smith's sympathies was held by the Knickerbockers--those sturdy
old citizens who seemed all of them somehow to have taken something of the mold of their redoubtable
leader and the greatest of them all, Peter Stuyvesant.  Smith was familiar with them all, from
Peter down.  And old Minuit, the Indian, selling his island for a song, was so much a matter
of reality to Smith that Helen came to believe in him also as a real individual.

"There he is now!" Smith once suddenly remarked, as they turned a corner and found themselves
almost in the arms of an exceptionally spirited cigar-store figure.

"Who?" Helen had asked in surprise.

"Why, old Peter Minuit himself, in the very act of reaching for the proceeds," Smith explained.
For which piece of simple levity it is to be feared that he was neither properly ashamed nor
adequately rebuked.

It was in the old city, below Twenty-third Street, that the work of time had been most diverse.
Here four full eras had left their mark--the aboriginal, the early Dutch, the English-American,
and lastly the modern age of granite canyons and sky-seeking towers and marvels of high air
and below ground.  Smith knew all four, and if one knows where to search, there are plenty
of interesting relics of the first three still to be found.  He knew how the southern end of
Manhattan looked when Hendrick Hudson moored the Half Moon in the lower harbor; and where the
shore line lay when the old Dutch keels with their high poops and proud pennons rode at anchor
in the river; and again later on when the English flag had replaced the Dutch, and the towering
masts of frigates and brigs and schooners made with their threaded rigging a constant etching
of the water front.

He guided Helen through old streets where a century's relics still persisted and where one
could still find an occasional cornerstone which the flight of a hundred hurrying years had
not displaced.  He was familiar with most of the old street names,--how West Broadway was once
Chapel Street,--many of them long since abandoned for modern changelings far less effective.
For the first time Helen realized the origin of the name of "Bouwerie," and how far into New
York's and the nation's traditions reached some of the mossy gravestones in Trinity Churchyard.

The city, during the progress of the Civil War, of which Helen had heard Augustus Lispenard
speak, was clearer in her vision than ever before, for Smith's grandfather had marched down
Broadway in '61, and, unlike Mr. Lispenard, he had not come back.

"They were just starting Central Park," Smith said; "because I have heard mother say often
that her father's letters from the front asked several times how the Park was getting along."

"It seems odd, doesn't it?  I had always looked on the Park as something which must always
have been where it is," Miss Maitland commented.  "But I suppose there must have been a beginning
some time."

Now all these wanderings and this companionship could not go wholly for naught.  Smith was
not at all a sentimental person, and Miss Maitland was not in search of emotional adventure,
but they were on hazardous ground, and it was hazardous because it was very pleasant to them both.

Miss Mary Wardrop was a lady in whom discretion was held in but lukewarm esteem.  Had this
not been so, she would have doubtless interposed, for convention's sake at least, in the swiftly
developing friendship between her niece and this young insurance man.  But Miss Wardrop had
long since ceased to care what the world said, and her satisfaction with her own views was
sufficient to permit her ignoring those who disagreed with them.  She saw nothing objectionable
in Smith, and if she speculated on the affair at all, she probably reflected that Miss Maitland
was now twenty-five years old and if she didn't know her own mind at that age, it didn't much
matter what happened to her.

So Smith, who was blandly ignorant of the fact that propriety as strictly measured in Boston
would have been aghast at his candid manner of following his inclinations, met with no obstacles
save from Miss Maitland herself.  She, it is true, now and again drew back when it seemed to
her that their friendship was perhaps progressing too rapidly; but she was not used to men
like Smith.  There was nothing of the Puritan about him, nothing of the false idea that if
a thing is pleasant, it must therefore be somehow sinful.  On the contrary, Smith believed
that with a normal person the gratification of wishes was the natural result of their possession.
If he felt hungry, he ate; if he wanted to see Helen, he went and saw her.  Against this hopeless
lack of affectation ordinary feminine weapons were badly blunted; in fact, they came to strike
Miss Maitland as rather silly.  After all, if he wished to see her, why shouldn't he do so?
The mere fact that he had seen her the day before was not germane.  The one germane thing would
have been a lack of inclination on her part to see Smith--and curiously enough, this lack did
not manifest itself.

Thus it was that only a few days after their long talk about O'Connor, the same fire saw them
together once more.  It was Thanksgiving Eve.

"Please don't tell me you have any engagement to-night," said Smith; "for by almost superhuman
effort and influence I have managed to reserve a table for three at the Café Turin at eight
o'clock.  May I call the Honorable Jinks and request Miss Wardrop to come and be invited to
dine with me?"

"You might try," said Miss Maitland, smiling.

"Then I will."

When the dignified Jenks had limped upward on his mission, the conversation took another turn.

"You are looking very cheerful to-night," Helen remarked.

"More so than I usually do when you see me?"

"More so than the last time I saw you, at all events.  Does this mean that you have correctly
solved the O'Connor mystery?  You really got me very much interested in it."

"No, I haven't solved it.  But I have a clew--the one you gave me.  If it is the right one,
we shall learn very soon."

On the stairs came the sound of Jenks's returning feet, followed a moment later by the rumor
of Miss Wardrop's own approach.

"Good evening," she greeted Smith.

"I've come to ask you a favor," he answered.  "I once happened to save the life of a head waiter,
and he has now repaid the obligation by reserving a table for me to-night at the Café Turin,
and I want you and Miss Maitland to come and dine with me."

Miss Wardrop wavered; she looked at her niece inquiringly.

"Then you'll come," Smith said.

The old lady laughed.

"Apparently I will, if Miss Maitland has no other plan for the evening."

Helen signified that she had none; and thus it was that eight o'clock found them seated in
an eligible corner of the big, gay restaurant, watching the animated holiday crowd, and themselves
in no somber or taciturn mood.

A restaurant may be the resort of strange people, but it is an institution of peculiar attractiveness,
for all that.  All the other tables in the room were occupied by merry parties, jewels and
demigems glinted back a thousand lights, men and women of society and out of it laughed and
talked, there was the clink of a myriad of glasses, the hurrying of anxious and expectant waiters,
the tinkle of silverware on china, mingled with the ignored strains of an orchestra invisible
and sufficiently remote not to dictate offensively the tempo of mastication of the diners.
It was nothing if not a cosmopolitan gathering.  In the crowd were, to judge from appearances,
foreigners of many races; but all were masquerading as citizens of the world.

"A conglomerate crew," Smith observed.  "They like to convey the impression that last week
they dined on the terrace at Bertolini's in Naples, or at Claridge's, or Shepheard's at Cairo,
or the Madrid in the Bois, or the Poinciana; while as a matter of fact most of them are like
myself and get into this sort of game about twice a year."

"Where do you suppose they all come from?" Miss Wardrop inquired.  She affected the newer haunts
of modern society very little, and this sort of gathering was strange to her.

"Nobody knows," said her host, lightly.  "Rahway, Yonkers, Flushing. Probably Harlem would
actually account for the majority, if my theory is correct that most of them are as new to
this as I am myself."

"Why don't you include Boston in your humble category?" Miss Maitland asked, laughing.

"Because I would be surprised if there were another Bostonian in this room this evening."

"But why do you think so?" the girl persisted.

"Oh, this isn't their style; they don't like this sort of business. No, I'll wager you three
macaroons against a lump of sugar that you are the only child of the Back Bay in this place
to-night."

"Done!" declared the girl.

"How can the question be decided?" Miss Wardrop inquired.  "I don't see how you can either
of you prove your contention."

"I will show you," replied her niece.  She turned to a waiter, hovering paternally near by,
and said, "Will you please go over to that third table where the very light-haired young lady
in the blue gown is sitting, and say to the young gentleman whose back is turned toward us
that Miss Maitland wishes to speak with him?"

Smith turned, in time to see the young gentleman in question rise at the waiter's message,
cast a look at Miss Maitland, and then come cheerfully forward.

"Do you know, I never dine at a place where I hope and expect--and select--to be absolutely
unknown, without meeting anywhere from five to nineteen friends, relations, and acquaintances
of various degrees of intimacy," he said, shaking hands.  "I'm really delighted to see you,
Helen--upon my word, I am; but I sincerely hope you are discretion itself."

"Mr. Wilkinson," said the girl, introducing him to her aunt; and with the briefest of glances
at Smith, she added, "of Boston."

"I remember Mr. Smith," said Charlie, easily.  "There is an epic quality of justice in his
being here, because he is indirectly responsible for my presence.  At least," he explained,
turning to Smith, "if you hadn't made a certain pregnant suggestion of the susceptibility of
a trolley magnate to the opinion of the stock market--"

"You don't mean--?" Helen exclaimed.

"As sure as eggs is incubator's children!  They hatched.  My esteemed uncle listened to my
siren voice--and here I am on a celebration trip! By the way," he said to the underwriter,
"I asked Bennington Cole, who's handling the schedule for me, to put as much of it as he could
in your company."

"That's very good of you," Smith replied; "but it will be a comparatively trifling amount,
I'm afraid.  The Guardian has just about as much as it is willing to risk in the congested
district of Boston, and Silas Osgood and Company are under instructions to keep our liability
down to its present amount and take little new business."

"I congratulate you, Charlie," Helen said.  "But why did you come here, hoping to be unknown?
Is it your beautiful lady?  Is she some one you shouldn't know?"

"Well, hardly that.  She's not precisely an undesirable citizen--she's all right enough--but
you scarcely want to meet her, I'm afraid.  You see, Isabel went South and left me in the lurch,
and I had to celebrate somehow--hence Amye."

"Amye?" said Smith, with amusement.

"Yes.  With an ultimate 'e.'  Amye Sinclair on the program; Minnie Schottman in the Hoboken
family Bible.  She's a nice girl but a trifle unintellectual.  She threw me a papier maché
orchid once in Boston."

"Young man," said Miss Wardrop, speaking for the first time, "are you a typical example of
the young men of to-day?"

"I am," Wilkinson promptly answered.  "I am energetic, entertaining, an opportunist, a eudaimonist,
and a baseball fan.  Yes, I think I may concede I am typical.  Do you agree with me, Helen?"

"I always agree with you, Charlie," said the girl, with a smile.  "What possible good would
it do me if I didn't?"

"Oh, you could--but you'll excuse me, I'm sure.  I see the waiter is preparing to serve my
table with real food, which is something I have a confessed predilection for.  Good-by--I'm
perfectly charmed to have seen you all."

And Mr. Wilkinson returned to Amye and the Cotuits.

"Don't look so scandalized, Aunt Mary," said Helen to her relation. "He is really much less
abandoned than he would have people believe; and I think Isabel will bring him out all right
yet.  I rather fancy she has decided to."

"Isabel Hurd, you mean?" responded Miss Wardrop.  "You don't mean to say so!  But, bless your
heart, I'm not scandalized--I've heard boys talk before.  Still, if your friend Isabel knows
what she is about, she won't stay South too long; she'll come North and let Amye go back to
Hoboken."

"Probably she will.  But I have not seen the three macaroons which I won with such ease and
finesse."

"Waiter," said Smith, disregarding the fact that they had not finished the entrée, "bring three
macaroons--exactly three--right away."

An expression of slight mystification appeared on the broad brow of the waiter, but he was
inured to eccentric gastronomic requests, and fulfilled this one with his accustomed dignity.

"There!" said Smith.  "There's my bet paid, though strictly speaking you couldn't have held
me for it, since you were betting on a certainty."

"May I pass the spoils?" replied the girl, with a laugh.

The memory of those three macaroons had to stand Smith in the stead of other things for the
last days of November.  On his arrival at the office on the morning following Thanksgiving
Day, Mr. O'Connor requested him to go down to Baltimore on company business requiring some
little time to transact, and not until after the first of December did he set foot again in
New York.

He arrived at about eight o'clock in the morning; and as he was obliged to go home first, he
did not reach William Street until nearly ten.  As he entered the Guardian office, he was aware
that something unusual had happened.  Business seemed somehow to have been oddly interrupted.
Around the map desks and file cases little groups of clerks were gathered, talking in low tones.

Smith watched them in silence for a moment, and as no one volunteered to enlighten him as to
what had occurred, he walked over to Mr. Bartels's office and went in.

"What's the matter here this morning?  Is there a conflagration anywhere?" he asked the stolid
personage at the desk, who barely ceased his figuring to make response:--

"Go and see the boss.  He and O'Connor have had a quarrel--funny business--I don't know anything
about it, that's all."

Smith went.  Mr. O'Connor was in his room, busily engaged at his desk; the table beside him
was heaped high with papers and books, which was an unusual sight, for O'Connor was a methodical
man and the room was customarily bare of litter.  The General Agent walked thoughtfully over
to the other side of the office, and glanced through the President's door.  Mr. Wintermuth
was walking up and down, his hands behind him and his face a little flushed.  Smith hesitated,
then deliberately opened the door and entered.

"Good morning, sir.  I have--" he began, but his chief, with an expression in which anger was
still the predominant characteristic, said abruptly:--

"Do you know what has happened?"

"No, sir, I do not."

"Mr. O'Connor has tendered his resignation, as Vice-President of the Guardian!"

Smith stood still a long minute without answering, and then he saw suddenly and clearly all
that for so many weeks the darkness had hidden from him.

"And did you accept his resignation, sir?" he asked at last.

The President turned swiftly to face the question.

"He tendered his resignation as of December thirty-first.  I told him his resignation was accepted
as of nine-forty-five this morning.  And I told him to pack up his stuff and get out of here
and never show himself in the Guardian office again."

CHAPTER XIII

In the course of his extended career Mr. Wintermuth had been called upon to face many serious
and unexpected crises.  Conflagrations; rate wars; eruptions of idiotic and ruinous legislation
adopted by state senates and assemblies composed of meddlesome agriculturalists, saloon keepers,
impractical young lawyers, and intensely practical old politicians;--all these he had lived
through not once, but often, and had always piloted the Guardian's bark to port in safety.
In fact, he had done this with such aplomb that long ago he had dismissed from his mind such
a thing as the possibility of a wave insurmountable.

In his first flush of anger against O'Connor's betrayal--for by Mr. Wintermuth the action of
his Vice-President could not otherwise be regarded--he had but one thought, and that was to
make O'Connor's act recoil upon his own head.  At that time, however, he was still in ignorance
of the full scope of the betrayal, and when the element of bitter personal resentment had largely
faded out, his pride and dignity reasserted themselves and bade him choose a different course.
Let O'Connor go his way--inevitably justice would overtake him.  After all, the first duty
was to the company, and the first thing to be done was to fill O'Connor's place.

The cardinal principle of Mr. Wintermuth's administration of the Guardian, during all the years
he had been chief executive, had been that all vacancies be filled by promotion of the company's
own men. All those who occupied positions of responsibility with the Guardian had come up from
the ranks, and it was one of the President's favorite themes for self-congratulation that it
had always been possible to fill every opening without going outside the home office.

Unfortunately, however, of late years the current flowing toward the top had been rather clogged
by the unusual pertinacity of the incumbents of important places.  O'Connor, Bartels, Wagstaff--for
years undisturbed all these had held their positions.  Even Smith, the youngest man to occupy
a place of trust, had been in his present capacity for quite a while.  And the natural result
of this was that new material in the company, or at least material capable of advancement and
development, was painfully scarce.

Bartels was not an underwriter at all, but an accountant, and it was inconceivable that he
would ever be anything else.  Wagstaff, who supervised the Southern and a part of the Western
field, was a good enough machine man, capable in a routine way and within his limitations,
but helpless outside them; he had no initiative, wholly lacked dash and imagination, and it
was out of the question that he be given charge of the general underwriting of the company,
even under such a chief as Mr. Wintermuth.  Cuyler, the head of the local department, was a
city underwriter pure and simple; his knowledge and his interest stopped short where the jurisdiction
of the New York Exchange ended; he knew no more, nor did he care for anything else.

There remained but one possibility--Smith.  And Smith was very young. There had been few or
no cases in the annals of fire insurance where the underwriting of such a company as the Guardian
had been placed in the hands of a man scarcely turned thirty.  Mr. Wintermuth, going over the
situation carefully, began to wish that he had looked a little farther into the future.  A
sharp sense of indecision came disagreeably to him, and very reluctantly he reached the conclusion
that he did not quite know what to do.

By his order a special meeting of the directors had been called for the next morning, and for
the intervening hours he possessed his soul in what patience he could command.  If the reflection
occurred to him that perhaps it would have been wiser to retain O'Connor until his successor
could be selected, he dismissed it at once.  The company would have to go on as best it could
without a vice-president until such time as the proper man could be found.

It was ten-thirty to the minute when Mr. Wintermuth took the chair and looked about the table
at his board.  Eleven directors in all, including the President, were in attendance; and although
no one except Mr. Wintermuth knew why they had been called together, there was an undercurrent
of concern among those present.  This was soon crystallized, for Mr. Wintermuth's opening words
wakened the active interest and lively perturbation of every man.

"Gentlemen," he said, "this meeting has been called as the result of my having received the
following letter.  'James Wintermuth, Esq., and so forth--I hereby tender my resignation as
Vice-President of the Guardian Fire Insurance Company of New York, to take effect on December
thirty-first or on such earlier date as may suit your convenience. Signed, F. Mills O'Connor.'
That is the letter, and so far as I am concerned, that closes the matter, except for the vote
whereby I ask you gentlemen to confirm my action in accepting Mr. O'Connor's resignation--as
of yesterday morning."

There was no discussion, and the vote was taken.

"Now," continued Mr. Wintermuth, "the office of Vice-president has been declared vacant, and
I will request your consideration of the filling of the vacancy.  As you know, it has always
been the policy of the Guardian to fill all vacancies, official and otherwise, by the promotion
of its own men.  It is my own belief that this is the only satisfactory and in fact the only
honorable system.  But Mr. O'Connor's resignation was so unexpected as to leave us unprepared--perhaps
more so than we should have been--and it now seems as though a deviation from our usual course
might be forced upon us."

He then very briefly acquainted them with the qualities of the men under O'Connor in much the
same way that he had reviewed them in his own mind.  The directors listened in silence.  In
short, silence was their only possible attitude, for the contingency which now confronted them
was one which took them wholly by surprise.

"To sum up the situation," Mr. Wintermuth concluded, "there is only one man now in the employ
of the company who is qualified to fill the vice-presidency, and that is Richard Smith, our
present General Agent."

He hesitated.  Personally he would have been glad to go farther and recommend Smith for the
position, but in his own mind he was not convinced of the wisdom of this.

"Isn't he pretty young?" inquired Mr. Whitehill, of Whitehill and Rhodes, the large real estate
operators, who sat at Mr. Wintermuth's right.

"Yes, he is.  I'm afraid he's almost too young," was the frank reply.

"How old is he, anyway?" another director asked.

"Thirty-two or thereabouts, I believe.  But he's had good training."

"He won't do," said Mr. Whitehill, tersely.  "The man for that job ought to be more seasoned--at
least forty.  Don't you agree with me?"

"I'm afraid I do," the President conceded, rather reluctantly.  "At least I am afraid that
Smith, good underwriter as he is, needs--as you say--a little more seasoning before being given
so responsible a position."

"What's the alternative?" inquired Mr. Griswold, from the other end of the table.

"The alternative," answered Mr. Wintermuth, "is one which I like little better.  It is to go
outside and hire an underwriter from somewhere else."

"Do you know a good man--one we could get?"

"There are always plenty available if you look in the right place--and back up your invitation
with a sufficient monetary inducement," said the President, a trifle caustically.  "Little
as I myself fancy the idea, it seems to me that it is what we shall have to do.  Unless," he
added, "you gentlemen should decide to risk giving Smith a chance."

"I'm in favor of going outside," Mr. Whitehill announced.  "I've met Smith, and he's a nice
clean-cut young fellow, but it would be an injustice to put him in such a place and expect
him to make good.  He's too much of a kid for such a job with a company like the Guardian."

There was a murmur, whether of approval or of passive acquiescence could not be told.

"Thirty-five is the minimum age for the President of the United States," suggested Mr. Wintermuth,
detachedly.

"Well, thirty-five is quite young enough," retorted Mr. Whitehill. "Give the boy a few years'
time.  I say, hire an underwriter outside."

The President turned to face the table.

"I take it, then, that it is the wish of the Board that the company's rule regarding office
promotions be waived in this instance.  But we must remember--as I have always maintained--that
it has a discouraging effect on loyalty and ambition, to import material to fill important
places.  However, it is for you gentlemen to decide."

"Have you thought of anyone for the position?" inquired one.

"Not seriously," responded the President.  "I have scarcely had time. There are of course plenty
of men we might get, but I have really not felt like considering the question of their relative
desirability before submitting the matter to you."

"I heard a speech last week," said Mr. Griswold, "by some man who wanted to reduce the fire
waste of the whole country.  It was delivered before the Chamber of Commerce in Plainfield,
New Jersey, where I live--I occasionally attend their meetings.  He's got something to do with
a Chicago company.  I think his name is Lyon.  He impressed me as being a clever talker.  Do
you know anything about him?"

"Oh, yes," replied Mr. Wintermuth, with a smile.  "You mean Charles Lyon.  He is President
of the Liberty Fire--quite a new company.  He is a clever talker--they say he can talk a bird
out of a tree.  To have organized the Liberty and gotten it started with real cash paid in
was a distinct personal achievement.  But I'm afraid he's a better promoter than an underwriter;
the Liberty has been losing money at an astonishing rate ever since it actually commenced to
write business. If he succeeds in cutting the fire waste of the country in two, his own company
may survive and may even share in the benefits, although probably not to a disproportionate
extent.  But I'm afraid he's too much of a philanthropist--a little too unselfish for us. 
We want an underwriter, not a philanthropist--some one more interested in keeping down the
losses of the Guardian Fire Insurance Company than those of the United States of America. 
And I imagine that Lyon at present would stick to the Liberty anyway, although I fancy he will
be open for a new position before very long."

"Well, I move that the President be empowered to hunt up the most likely candidate he can find
for Mr. O'Connor's position," said Mr. Whitehill, and the motion was carried.  An adjournment
was taken for a week, or until such time as Mr. Wintermuth should have a candidate ready for
consideration.

There was one decided drawback to the successful accomplishment of the task to which Mr. Wintermuth
now addressed himself.  This was the fact that the Guardian was not disposed to pay exorbitantly
for an underwriting head.  It was willing to pay a reasonable salary, but it was not a corporation
of unlimited resources or gigantic income, and the expense ratio had perforce to be considered.
Plenty of men whose names occurred to the President would have been competent and in every
way eligible, but they were men of recognized standing in the profession, and already occupied
positions of trust.  It is not often that highly capable men are open to change without unusual
inducement, and Mr. Wintermuth, scanning the ranks of possibilities, found them dishearteningly
scanty.  All the men he wanted, he knew perfectly well could not be detached from their present
allegiances, and the men who were detachable he didn't want.  Moreover, it had been a good
many years since Mr. Wintermuth had been actively at work in the field.  The men with whose
character and ability he was most familiar were too advanced in age; the younger generation
he did not know.

Virgil and several others of the early classic authors have commented upon the surprising swiftness
with which common rumor travels.  If its speed was provocative of comment in those bygone days,
which lacked most of the accelerating features now found on every hand, it should certainly
fare far faster at the present time.  At any rate, no tidings ever spread through the subliminal
Chinese empire, warning of Magyar hordes beyond the Wall, with greater celerity than the news
of Mr. Wintermuth's quest through the insurance world.  The waves of it rolled echoing from
office to office, from special agent to special agent, from city to city.

Like vultures out of an empty sky came the effects.  Circumspect as Mr. Wintermuth had been,
keeping the object of his search as secret as might be, it was not more than four days before
he was driven ruefully to reflect that he might just as well have put an advertisement in the
paper.  Apparently everybody in the insurance world, including especially the insurance editor
of the paper in which he did not advertise, knew he had decided to go outside his own office
for a managing underwriter; and apparently every person within reach had some one--usually
himself--to recommend for the position.  Mr. Wintermuth finally found it necessary to deny
himself to aspiring applicants who besieged his office, and went out on a still hunt in the
lanes and byways where he was less likely to meet people with axes to grind.  It was on one
of these excursions, in a most natural and unpremeditated manner, that he found himself confronted
by Mr. Samuel Gunterson.

Mr. Gunterson had, it was true, been suggested as a possibility, but through an outside source
which Mr. Wintermuth felt sure was most unlikely to have been stimulated to the suggestion
by the person most interested.  The President was in a mood of despondency, incidental to the
painful discovery of how frail a tissue of truth most of the recommendations of his applicants'
supporters usually possessed.  He had spent four days investigating the records of men whose
names, enthusiastically presented to him, proved to be the only commendable thing about them.
Now, after this discouraging experience, he hailed the prospect of independent selection with
relief.  It was with much lightened depression that he recognized that Mr. Gunterson was not--actively,
at least--endeavoring to secure for himself the Guardian appointment, but seemed, on the contrary,
quite well contented in his present position, and Mr. Wintermuth settled down to overtures
with almost his customary cheerfulness.

Mr. Samuel Gunterson was, at this period of his highly variegated underwriting career, some
forty-six years of age.  A life whose private character no journal had as yet been tempted
to divulge had left no trace upon the impassive contour of his face nor on the somber dignity
of his bearing.  He was of middle height, and somewhat stout, his hair was iron-gray, and he
carried himself with a sort of restrained or reflective optimism, as though he forced himself
to be cheerful and companionable at the cost of untold anguish to an inner ego that no one
knew.  It was an effective carriage, and few people attempted to take liberties with its possessor.

During his experience in the fire insurance business Mr. Gunterson had contrived to become
connected with and separated from more different concerns than could be readily computed. 
He had averaged somewhat better than one change bi-yearly, and the history of his peregrinations
could never have been written, for no one but himself could have furnished the necessary material,
and on all matters concerning himself Mr. Gunterson was as cryptic as were the Delphic oracles
of old.  He chose to consider himself a victim of an astonishing series of circumstances, and
in a certain sense this was true, although the circumstances were largely of his own creation.
Good companies and bad, established concerns and promoters' flotations, auspicious ventures
and forlorn hopes--he had been associated with them all, and from each one he emerged with
untroubled calm while the unhappy machine, its steering gear usually crippled by his hand alone,
went plunging downhill over the cliff into the soundless waters of oblivion.

Mr. Gunterson had been either President or underwriting manager of the Eureka Insurance Company
of Pittsburgh, whose demise scarcely surprised those who were aware that its remarkable popularity
with its agents was mainly due to the willingness with which it accepted their bad business
in almost unlimited quantities; of the Florida Fire and Marine, whose annual premium income
of about eight times the amount warranted by its resources attracted the thoughtful attention,
although scarcely the respect, of some of the leading underwriters in New York; of the United
of Omaha, whose heavy investment in the bonds of a subsequently exploded copper company promoted
by Mr. Gunterson's brother-in-law precipitated its insolvency even before its underwriting
losses could overtake it; of the Planters of Oklahoma, which the Insurance Commissioner of
Massachusetts one day examined with the interesting discovery that its liabilities were nearly
three times its assets; and of the Constitution Fire of Washington, D.C., which ceased to issue
policies by request of the United States Government.  From each of these unfortunate endeavors
Mr. Gunterson had emerged with unblemished reputation, and even enhanced gravity and authority
due to his wider experience, and with his air of slightly melancholy urbanity diminished not
at all.

Four years prior to the time when fate led Mr. Wintermuth to his door, he had been the nerve
if not the brains of the general agency of Hill and Daggett of William Street, representing
in an extensive territory a fleet of some seven small companies with more sporting spirit than
assets, and his astute helmsmanship had resulted in running all seven soundly and irrevocably
upon the rocks.  From the wreck he emerged, in the first lifeboat to leave, with his broad
white brow as untroubled and serene as ever.  The collapse, however, left him without visible
means of support, so he took a short trip abroad, returning in a month or two as the American
manager of a large German company which was just entering the United States.

It is doubtful by what, if any, method these Continental-European companies select their representatives
in this country.  Ability and probity seem to be regarded lightly--as scarcely worth careful
investigation.  But no well-known man whose lack of success has left unimpaired his fluency
of speech need despair.  So long as new foreign companies continue to establish American branches
and appoint managers, any amiable detrimental with sufficient verbosity may secure for himself
a comfortable berth.  Mr. Gunterson had now for almost two years been in charge of the United
States business of the Elsass-Lothringen on a loss ratio so surprisingly satisfactory that
he himself was absolutely at a loss to explain it.  For the first time in a considerable period
he felt himself to be in a strong strategic position, and he received Mr. Wintermuth in what
only his extreme courtesy prevented from being an offhand manner.  It was obvious that he had
no intention nor desire to meet any one halfway.

Now Mr. Wintermuth had always held that a man too anxious to change his affiliations was no
proper man for the Guardian, and this indifference of Mr. Gunterson pleased him.  It further
developed that Mr. Gunterson had at last, in the Elsass-Lothringen, found almost what he had
always been seeking; his company gave him an entirely free hand,--a highly desirable thing
for an underwriting manager,--and he did not know whether he should ever care about looking
for anything else.  At the psychological moment he nonchalantly displayed to Mr. Wintermuth's
interested gaze his twenty-two per cent loss ratio for the Elsass-Lothringen, but in the next
breath, recalling a few recent preliminary tremors unpleasantly suggestive of other catastrophes
through which he had passed, and not to overlook a link in his entangling chain, he stated
that after all, though, he was an American, and intimated that as such he sometimes felt he
would a little rather devote himself to the interests of an American underwriting institution.
Only occasionally did he have this feeling--still, it was there, and he must needs admit it.

Such was the man to whom Mr. Wintermuth had come, and to whom he ultimately extended an invitation
to present himself for the consideration of the Guardian's directorate.  And Mr. Gunterson,
uneasily suspecting that the structure of the German institution might at any moment collapse
at some quite unexpected point, and calculating that he might secure the managerial berth for
his equally inefficient brother-in-law, and thus keep the salary in the family, cautiously
accepted the invitation.  So this was the man who, a few days later, faced the full board,
who with affable confidence in his own abilities won over even the somewhat skeptical Whitehill,
and who was, on the ninth day of December, 1912, elected Vice-President and underwriting manager
of the Guardian Fire Insurance Company of New York.

He guaranteed to free himself from his Teutonic engagements and alliances in time to join the
Guardian by the first of January.  Suave and profound, with his grave glance suggesting unutterable
depth, he bowed himself out of the presence of Mr. Wintermuth and the other directors.  And
the ruminative elevator carried to the street level the best satisfied man in New York.

At once the appointment was made public, and newspapers and individuals alike refrained from
expressing what the better informed among them feared and expected.  Mr. Wintermuth heard nothing
on every hand but flattering comments on his own acumen, and praises of the sterling qualities
and experience of his new appointee.  In fact, the insurance press as a whole spoke of Mr.
Gunterson almost as kindly as though he had died, and it was--unofficially--understood that
Mr. O'Connor realized that he had made a great mistake.  Mr. O'Connor, however, having with
considerable satisfaction moved into the Salamander's big room with "President" in brass letters
on the door, ably restrained any irritation he may have felt.  Privately he assured Mr. Murch
that things could not have turned out better if he had ordered them himself.

"Gunterson is the very man for our purposes," he said.  "He's a stuffed shirt if there ever
was one.  I couldn't have made a better appointment--for us--myself.  We can bleed the Guardian
of every desirable agent they've got, and he won't know how to stop us."

And Mr. Murch, smiling, suggested that the bleeding begin as soon as possible.

In the Guardian itself, opinion was divided.  No one in the office knew much, if anything,
about the new underwriter, and most of the men were inclined, in view of Mr. Wintermuth's recommendation,
to take him at his own assessed valuation.  But not so Wagstaff, and not so Smith. Wagstaff
because it hung in his memory how, many years before, this same Gunterson had by rather questionable
methods worsted him in a transaction affecting a schedule of cotton compresses in Georgia;
Smith because he believed Mr. Gunterson to be a fraud of such monumental proportions that he
deserved a place among the storied charlatans of the world.

His company and its reputation being more to Smith than almost anything else, he felt this
thing very nearly in the light of a tragedy. Gloomily regarding the prospect, all he could
see ahead was trouble and disgrace.  And he knew that his own hands were tied.  He was of course
only an employee of the company, which could select as officers whom it chose, and any protest
from him would very properly be disregarded--and worse than that, he would naturally and inevitably
be suspected of speaking once for the company and twice for himself.

It was a rather troubled face that in spite of himself he presented in Washington Square North
an evening or two after that eventful ninth of December.

"What is the matter with you?  You look too discouraged for words," Helen told him, when the
conversation was barely begun.

"Do I show it as plainly as that?" he replied, somewhat ruefully. "Well, I'll admit that, funereal
as I may look, it's not a circumstance to the way I feel.  That's partly why I came here--to
see you and be cheered up."

Somewhere down in the still, chill Boston archives of Miss Maitland's supposedly well-schooled
emotions a little quiver awoke and stirred. This was quite without warrant or suggestion from
the girl herself, and she strove to convince herself that no stir had been felt. Unfortunately,
however, she had received that day a letter from her mother bringing her to a decision which
she must now convey to the man before her, and she felt a flash of almost reckless curiosity
to see how he would receive it.

"If I were a horrible egotist," she said lightly, "I should think that a little part of your
depression came from anticipating that I was going to tell you I am going back home next week."

Smith looked at her in silence.  He looked at her until she felt the pause and broke again
into speech.

"You see, I have to get back to be with mother at Christmas, and there are a lot of things
to do before then--" she began, but he interrupted her.

"I said I came here to be cheered up--and that is what you tell me!" he said.  "I came up here
half hoping to be soothed back into my customary optimism--and this is what I get!  This is
certainly an accursed month in an accursed year!"

It occurred to Helen that, regarding the matter strictly from a standpoint of gallantry, the
year wherein a young man met her and successfully won her friendship should not properly be
termed in all ways and wholly accursed.  She scarcely felt like pointing this out, however;
and the compliment of Smith's real concern at her departure would compensate for a little gaucherie
of expression.  As though he had read her thought, Smith spoke again, this time with all trace
of the sardonic gone from his tone.

"I beg your pardon--I didn't mean that," he said.  "It has been a fine year.  I won't revile
it just because it ends with a double catastrophe.  How soon do you expect to leave?"

"The end of next week, I think," the girl answered.  There was an expression in his eyes which
she did not quite understand, and therefore distrusted; and she hurriedly turned the conversation
into another channel.

"If you flatter me by regarding my departure as one catastrophe, what is the other?" she asked.
"What has happened?  Is it something to do with O'Connor?"

"Well, it's all part of the same thing, I suppose," he said.  "I had almost forgotten O'Connor,
though, since Gunterson drove him out of my head."

"Who or what is Gunterson, please?"

Smith told her.

"If O'Connor can get the Eastern Conference to put through a separation rule now, we're absolutely
helpless," he concluded.  "Gunterson wouldn't have the vaguest idea of what to do--and wouldn't
let any one else tell him.  I can pretty nearly see the Guardian, under Samuel Gunterson's
suicidal direction, setting sail with all flags flying, and heading straight for the bottom
of the sea."

Helen could think of nothing to say.

"And you are leaving for Boston!" Smith added.  "Well, it looks to me as though I might be
out of a job before long, and perhaps I'll come up to Boston and strike your Uncle Silas for
one.  I think Mr. Osgood always rather liked me.  And Boston's a pretty good town--or will
be after next week."

He spoke a little bitterly, for it seemed that the possibility he mentioned was perhaps not
so remote, after all.  Even if the Guardian survived the staggering load of its Vice-President,
he felt that he could not serve very long under such a man as Gunterson.  And if such a thing
should come to pass, he would be in no position to hope as he was now hoping, or to dream as
he was now dreaming.  Yet, after all, no wall that was ever built can shut out dreams.

CHAPTER XIV

The second day of January, 1913, was marked by the installation of Samuel Gunterson as underwriting
head of the Guardian and by the announcement of a radical separation rule by the combined companies
of the Eastern Conference.  Each was likely to have a far-reaching effect.

Smith read the news with stolid eyes.  He did not credit O'Connor with having had sufficient
influence to carry the separation act through the Conference, but all that the astute President
of the Salamander had hoped for, and in anticipation of which had laid his plans, had come
to pass--the Guardian was out of the Conference, the separation rule was to take effect almost
immediately--and Gunterson was at the wheel. Smith well knew what a leverage would be used
against his company.  He was still brooding over the fateful item when Mr. Wintermuth sent for him.

"Have you met your new chief yet?" asked the President, in a friendly manner.

"Yes," said the other, shortly.  He held out the paper.  "Have you seen this yet?" he inquired,
in turn.

"The Journal of Commerce?  No.  Is there anything especial in it?"

For answer Smith laid the paper open on the desk, pointing silently to the item which meant
so much to the Guardian--and to every company outside the Conference.

Mr. Wintermuth adjusted his glasses and read the article carefully.

"Well, well!" he said thoughtfully.  "So they passed it, after all!  I never believed they
would dare.  It's a little too much like a boycott--it gives them too much the appearance of
a combination in restraint of trade.  Tariff and rate-making associations are proper and necessary,
but to attempt to dictate to agents what companies they shall not represent--or at any event
penalize them for so doing--is going pretty far.  No, I didn't think they'd dare."

"Three months ago perhaps they wouldn't have," Smith suggested.  "It looks like a reprisal
aimed at us, more than any one else.  All the other outsiders are old hands and can take care
of themselves, but we haven't gotten acclimated--we're liable to have a bad time.  And I think
I know who accelerated the whole movement, sir."

"Yes--I understand whom you mean," said the President, compressing his lips.  "No doubt this
was part of his plan.  Well, you seem to have followed this thing pretty closely, Richard--what
do you think we had better do?"

"Isn't that rather a matter for Mr. Gunterson to decide now, sir?  I don't want him to start
with the idea that I am trying to dictate the underwriting policy of the company.  Of course,
I have my own idea of what would best serve the interest of the company to do--although in
some ways I'd hate to see us do it."

"And what may it be?"

"Go back into the Conference."

"What!  Go limping back with our tail between our legs?  Put O'Connor in a position where he
could say that we were strong enough to go out and stand alone when he was with us, but after
he left we were too weak to stick it out?  Never!  I won't go back into the Eastern Conference,
if it costs the Guardian every agency in the field. . . .  Boy, ask Mr. Gunterson if he will
be so good as to step here a moment."

In the brief interval before the new Vice-President put in his dignified appearance, neither
of the occupants of the office spoke.

"Ah, Mr. Gunterson.  Good morning once more.  You know Mr. Smith, our General Agent, I believe?"

Mr. Gunterson bowed with urbanity.  Courtesies exchanged--a matter of some little time--the
President again spoke.

"Did you notice, in this morning's Journal, that the Eastern Conference has passed a separation
rule, Mr. Gunterson?  I do not know whether you are aware that the Guardian is not a member
of the Conference; shortly before the resignation of your predecessor we withdrew--largely
upon his recommendations.  There is no reasonable doubt that at the time Mr. O'Connor believed
such a rule would go into effect, and very likely he was more or less instrumental in getting
it adopted.  At all events it is clear that he wanted us to get out, and here we are--out!
And almost any time, now, we are likely to be put out of nearly every agency in the East where
Conference companies predominate--which means ninety per cent of our agencies."

"I see," observed Mr. Gunterson, sagely.  "I see."

"Now the question is: what are we going to do?  Mr. Smith here advises that we confess our
inability to operate in an open field without the invaluable assistance of our late Vice-president,
and go back into the Conference.  By merely sacrificing our self-respect we could save our
Eastern agency plant.  I have put you in charge of the underwriting of the Guardian, Mr. Gunterson,
and I would like your advice on this."

The attitude to be assumed by the Vice-president was too obvious to be creditable to his sense
of perception.

"I would not give them the satisfaction of seeing us reverse our policy and confess ourselves
defeated--surrender before a gun was fired.  We can fight and win," said Mr. Gunterson, promptly.

It was rudimentary cleverness; a babe could have perceived what reply Mr. Wintermuth desired.

"Good!" said that gentleman, much encouraged.  "I'm glad to hear you say so.  That's exactly
the way I feel about it, myself.  I'll see O'Connor damned before I'll let him think he has
forced our hand.  I think your attitude is quite correct, Mr. Gunterson--I like the way you begin."

"Thank you, sir," said the Vice-president, modestly; then, deprecatingly nodding toward Smith:--

"Probably from a strictly conservative viewpoint Mr. Smith's advice is good.  And the Guardian
is a conservative company.  But a little properly placed radicalism is not a bad thing at times--is
not that true, Mr. Wintermuth?"

To which Mr. Wintermuth assented with a smile.

"At all events the fight, if there is one, will be confined to the smaller places.  They can't
touch us in the big cities, can they?" pursued Mr. Gunterson, following up his advantage.

"No," said Smith, shortly.  "The rule won't affect us here in New York, nor in Boston, nor
Philadelphia, nor Buffalo, nor Baltimore.  At least those places, and some others, have always
been excepted cities--making their own rules.  Unless the local agents through the local boards
vote for separation, we're safe there.  I'd hate to see a fight started in those towns, though."

"You seem a little reluctant to get into any controversy, Richard," said Mr. Wintermuth, kindly.
"To be sure, you haven't been through so many as we have.  But sometimes it is necessary to
fight--and fight hard, too."

"He has not weathered as many storms as you, sir," Gunterson interpolated with a smile.  "Nor,"
he added, "as many as I myself, perhaps."

"Perhaps not," said Smith, dryly.  "Is there anything else you want of me, sir?" he turned
to the President.  "If not, I guess I'll get back to my mail."

"Go ahead," returned his chief.  "Mr. Gunterson and I will plan this thing out together."

And Smith left the office with as much numb despondency in his heart as he had ever felt in
his thirty-odd years.  He knew--what the others did not seem fully to appreciate--that there
was an animus in this attack of O'Connor's which would stick at nothing.  He saw, or he believed
he saw, the excepted cities of Boston, Philadelphia, and the rest, under the polite coercion
of the Eastern Conference, passing similar separation rules of their own.  He foresaw the Guardian
forced out of Graham and Peck's agency in Philadelphia, out of the Silas Osgood office in Boston,
and losing its long established connections in other cities where the Guardian's business was
as well selected and profitable as that of any company of them all.  He looked gloomily down
a long vista of losses and disappointments, and it appeared to him there could naturally be
but one end.  However, it was no doing of his. He was there to obey orders and to transact
the company's business as the management desired it to be done, and in the press of other crowding
matters he was glad to forget everything but the tasks before him.

The days succeeding the Conference announcement brought very little in the way of further developments.
So still was the insurance stage, indeed, that Mr. Gunterson began to think that there would
be no trouble, after all, and Smith to speculate on the ominous stillness and on what new moves
would flash from behind this seeming curtain of inaction.

Almost at the very time of this speculation on his part, a train was carrying toward Boston
no less a person than F. Mills O'Connor of the Salamander.  Almost at the very hour of a Tuesday
morning, when Mr. Gunterson was gravely assuring Mr. Wintermuth that he believed he would be
able, in spite of the Eastern Conference, to preserve the company's agency force without the
loss of a single important agent, Mr. O'Connor, after more or less indirect preliminary conversation,
was presenting his desires quite bluntly to Mr. Silas Osgood.

"To be perfectly frank, Mr. Osgood, the Salamander has never gotten the premium income it should
get from Boston, and worse than that, it has always lost money.  Now you've got a place for
us in your office, and it's the Guardian's place.  No--hold on a minute--let me finish.  I
know that Mr. Wintermuth is an old friend of yours, but Mr. Wintermuth is about finished with
the fire insurance business.  Now you know that your relations with Gunterson, who is a hopeless
incompetent, will never be satisfactory, and you also know that Gunterson will probably put
the company out of business within two years.  You appreciate also that the Salamander is a
bigger company than the Guardian--it has twice the Guardian's premium income--"

"And half the Guardian's surplus," interrupted Mr. Osgood, softly.

"No matter about the surplus.  Edward E. Murch and his people are back of us, we've got the
premium income, and we're in the game to stay, while you as a practical insurance man know,
no matter how far your sympathies may go in the opposite direction, that the days of the Guardian
are numbered.  I'm offering you the chance to take on one of the livest companies in the field
to-day in place of a concern that's headed for oblivion by the most direct route.  It's a chance
I would jump at if I were in your place, but I understand the sentimental consideration enters
in,--it does credit to your heart, Mr. Osgood, and I respect you for it,--and in view of all
that sort of thing I came here prepared to give you certain inducements to switch the Guardian's
business to the Salamander."

"Inducements?  Of what sort do you mean?" inquired Mr. Osgood, mildly, although his face was
a little flushed.

"Well, increased latitude on lines and classes--a larger authorization in the congested district--those
are some things.  Possibly also," he suggested delicately, "a little extra allowance--let us
say an entertainment fund--to be used in cultivating brokers with an especially desirable business."

"But," said Mr. Osgood, "we are members of the Boston Board.  We cannot offer any greater inducements
to brokers than any of our fellow members offer."

O'Connor saw his suggestion had not been taken kindly.

"Of course not," he agreed.  "Although I know one Boston agent who once a month plays cards
with his best broker, and curiously enough he always loses exactly five per cent of that broker's
account with him for the previous month.  Such things are sickening--and they put at a disadvantage
those of us who live up to our agreements.  But I don't suppose any Board could make a rule
preventing an agent from taking a good customer out to dinner and perhaps the theater once
in a while--that was all I meant to suggest."

Mr. Osgood, who felt considerable doubt as to this innocent limitation, rose.

"I presume you would like my decision, Mr. O'Connor," he said, in a low voice.

"Why, yes--as soon as convenient--the sooner the better," the other man replied easily.

"Well, then, I will give it to you now," said the Bostonian.  "Mr. O'Connor, I am an old man;
I have lived in this city for nearly seventy years, and during those years I do not think I
ever made a bargain which I would have been ashamed for the world to have seen.  I am too old
to begin to be either disloyal or dishonest now--for I do not see what else you can call what
you have proposed but disloyalty to my friend Mr. Wintermuth and his company and dishonesty
to my associates in the Boston Board.  If I thought you intended to insult me, I would ask
you to leave my office, but I do not think you intended your proposal as an insult, for I do
not believe that by your own code you are doing anything which that code would condemn."

His visitor started to voice a protest, but the other man stopped him.

"Let me finish," he said.  "I have known your former chief, Mr. Wintermuth, considerably more
than half my lifetime.  When I resign the Boston agency of the Guardian, it will be either
at his request or because my day in the insurance world is over and I can no longer give the
company a sufficient business.  That is all.  And now, Mr. O'Connor, I do not ask you to leave
my office, but I hope you will never come into it again so long as I am here."

The President of the Salamander got to his feet, and his eyes narrowed.

"All right, Mr. Osgood," he said.  "Don't worry--I won't stay where I'm not wanted.  But my
offer was made in good faith, it would have been advantageous to your firm, and I'm sorry you
turned it down.  I wanted to give you a chance, in a way that I admit would have been a good
thing for me, to keep your own office organization intact--for the impression seems to be gaining
ground that the Boston Board will pass a separation rule, and in that event you will have to
give up the Guardian agency, anyway."

The Bostonian turned back to his desk.

"That is too remote a contingency for me to discuss with you," he replied, somewhat curtly.
"Good-day, sir."

"Good-day, Mr. Osgood," said F. Mills O'Connor.  He paused at the threshold.  "I don't believe
you've heard the last of this yet," he remarked, as he closed the door behind him.

It is a common saying with regard to any especially clever criminal: what a great man he would
have made of himself if only he would have applied all this cleverness to legitimate ends!
This is probably untrue in nine cases out of every ten, and perhaps in even a larger ratio,
for the successful crook is successful only along crooked lines; his mind will work only in
forbidden channels; it needs the spice and flavor of the illicit to stimulate its brilliancy.
Let him address himself to a legitimate problem, ethical or commercial, and his efficiency
evaporates--or rather it is non-existent.

Although not a criminal, F. Mills O'Connor was, to a limited degree, a demonstration of this
fact.  Mr. O'Connor had been competent but never particularly clever along strictly legitimate
lines; it was always and only along ways just a little devious, a little tricky, a little sophistical,
that his acumen mounted above the ordinary.  His greatest successes with the Guardian had always
been gained by methods which had been kept secret from his chief, for Mr. Wintermuth's keen
sense of business honor would have prevented the fruition of every one.

He was now in the right company.  The Salamander took its key from its leading director, and
Mr. Murch's code of ethics briefly consisted of a belief that it was advisable to "stay inside
the law"--unless he were absolutely certain that transgression would be undiscoverable or unpenalized.
Into this scheme of things Mr. O'Connor fitted like water in a skin.  Hence one need not have
been astonished, half an hour later, had he overheard one end of a conversation conducted from
Mr. Bennington Cole's private phone in the office of Silas Osgood and Company.

"Yes--this is Mr. Cole."

"Yes--I know who is speaking."

"Yes--I presume I could come over.  Young's Hotel, did you say?"

"I understand.  Room forty-three.  I'll be there in about twenty minutes."

In twenty minutes room forty-three saw Mr. Cole being suavely greeted by Mr. O'Connor, and
then it proceeded to furnish the scene for a little drama of business intrigue that would have
been very interesting to an audience of law-abiding Conference companies who believed in living
up to their pledges.

In the course of this undivulged conversation it developed that Mr. O'Connor was satisfied
with what had just gone before; that Mr. Osgood had done exactly what both O'Connor and Cole
had expected he would do, making it possible for Cole, by the proper playing of his cards,
to succeed almost immediately to the management of the Osgood agency, and that aided thereto
by the fact that the scrupulous Mr. Osgood would doubtless hesitate to interfere in any way
with any act of his successor, the fuse was all laid for the introduction of the Salamander
into the Osgood office by means of the passage of a separation rule in Boston at the very next
meeting of the local board.  The interview must have been a satisfactory one, for Cole's step,
as he walked back to Kilby Street, was buoyant, and Mr. O'Connor bore himself as a deeply satisfied
man.

Among the local agents in Boston there had never been any marked sentiment either for or against
the adoption of a separation scheme. Some of the agents believed in it and some did not; but
as most of the principal offices represented, with a few unimportant exceptions, only Conference
companies, it had never been really a vital issue up to the time Mr. O'Connor came to Boston
for the Salamander.  By what means he contrived to bring the agents into line will never be
known. Undoubtedly the time was precisely ripe, and he had the very influential cooperation
of many of the strongest Conference companies. At all events, however he went to work, that
way proved efficacious. The passage of the rule through the Board was assured.  After its vote
on the coming Wednesday, no agent in Boston representing a Conference company could, at the
expiration of thirty days, continue to represent an outsider.

The effect that such a rule would have on the local interests of the Guardian was at once apparent.
Representing, as the Osgood office did, a number of Conference companies, three of which it
had represented almost as long as the Guardian, Mr. Osgood would have no practical choice.
It was a case of one against the rest--and naturally the one would fall.  Of all this, however,
Mr. Osgood himself knew nothing as yet, save for the vague menace conveyed by O'Connor's valedictory
address.  Of this also the Boston insurance fraternity at large knew almost nothing, for the
matter was to be jammed through the Board, and those behind it were sworn to secrecy.

Outside the inner ring who were back of the move, only one man in Boston caught wind of the
matter which now only waited the coming of Wednesday to take its place among the rules of the
Boston Board.  This man was Mr. Francis Hancher of the Boston Index, the most alert insurance-news
gatherer of New England.  If anything of moment went on in the insurance world that centers
in Boston, without coming under the attention of the inquisitive Mr. Hancher, it had to wear
felt slippers and move about only at night.  He had as unerring an instinct for insurance news
as any ward boss for graft, and he was a man of humanity and bonhomie besides.  Into his ears
came the first faint rumors of things astir, and he began to work on the almost impalpable
scent. Silently he worked, craftily, without arousing suspicion in the minds of those he questioned.
Bit by bit, fragment by fragment, he gathered the makings of a Story, until at last, on the
Saturday morning before the fateful Wednesday, he happened into the office of Silas Osgood
and gained the last link in his chain.

"What's new?" was his greeting to Mr. Osgood.

"Could there be anything new that you do not know?" replied the other, with a smile.

"I see O'Connor's in town," said Hancher, abruptly, and his interest quickened when he saw
the sudden change of Mr. Osgood's expression. "You've seen him, I suppose?" the journalist
pursued nonchalantly.

"Yes," Mr. Osgood rather stiffly admitted.

Mr. Hancher took a sudden resolution.  He drew up his chair a little closer, and leaned forward.

"I think you'd better tell me what he's here for--all you know about it," he said bluntly.
"You know me--I won't use what you tell me unless I have your permission.  And I've got an
idea that you ought to know what's going on."

"I would very greatly prefer that it should not become common knowledge," Mr. Osgood replied
with some hesitation; "but I may tell you, Mr. Hancher, that Mr. O'Connor came to see me with
a proposal that we take the agency of the Salamander and turn over the Guardian's business
to them.  I told him--were you going to say anything?"

"No.  That's it, then.  Go on--what did you tell him?"

"I told him no.  I didn't care to consider the matter," said the older man, simply.

"Mr. Osgood," said the other, "you've given me what I need to make what I suspected stand on
a solid bottom.  I can see the motive now for what's being done.  It's the fact that O'Connor
wants the Guardian's business.  Now, I want to tell you something--or rather ask you something.
Do you think your refusal to consider his proposition closed up the whole business completely?"

"Well, no," Mr. Osgood replied; "I suppose not.  In fact, when he left, he rather intimated
that I might look for further developments."

"That was temper," Hancher commented judicially.  "Not good judgment, at all.  Ordinarily he'd
never have said such a thing.  But he meant it, all right--you can believe that.  If he can't
get the Guardian business one way, he'll try it another.  And the second way he has chosen
is this--after the meeting of the Boston Board next Wednesday you will be obliged to choose
between resigning either the Guardian or all your other companies."

"You mean that a separation rule will be put through?" Mr. Osgood inquired quickly.

"Surest thing you know," the journalist declared.  "That is, unless somebody puts a little
sand on the slide pretty all-fired soon.  I say, Mr. Osgood,--I'm a non-combatant, but I like
to see fair play,--why don't you write the Guardian people?--or wire them?  I think this is
something your friend Wintermuth ought to know."

Mr. Osgood reached toward the button that summoned his stenographer, and then drew back his hand.

"No," he said slowly.  "What's the use?  If it's decided, I can't stop it.  And I fancy the
best of my fighting days are over.  That's for the younger men to do.  I'll talk to Cole about
it, and see what he thinks we'd better do."

The journalist glanced at him somewhat skeptically.

"Well, you needn't fight, yourself--let the Guardian people attend to that.  And if you take
my advice, you'll write Wintermuth.  Good-by."

Mr. Osgood wrote, and on Monday morning his letter came to the hand of Mr. Wintermuth, whose
eye brightened at the sight of his friend's signature.  But there was no pleasure in his tone
when a moment later he sent for Mr. Gunterson.

"Look here," he said, "I'm afraid these Eastern Conference people mean trouble.  We've been
assuming that the excepted cities were safe--nothing could happen there.  Well, I don't believe
they're as safe as we thought.  Read what Osgood says about Boston.  Boston! where we've got
as fine a business as any company of our size in the field. Look at that!"

With a dignified reticence Mr. Gunterson took the letter, and in a rich silence he perused
it.  Then, with a calm smile, he gave his decision.

"Mr. Osgood's evident alarm may be well founded--perhaps not.  But at all events, I believe
our interests at Boston should be protected by some one of authority, and I shall go up myself
on the five o'clock this afternoon."

On the five o'clock Mr. Gunterson left New York, and at a seasonable hour on Tuesday morning
he started forth upon his travels from his Boston hotel.  In search of a target at which he
could aim, he went first to Mr. Osgood, to ask his aid in locating that target.  Mr. Osgood,
who had hoped that Mr. Wintermuth himself would come, felt a tremor of premonitory dismay at
the sight of this deputy; and his subsequent talk with Mr. Gunterson did nothing to allay his
apprehension.  In fact, it was his covert reflection that if Hancher was right, it was all
over; the man whom Wintermuth sent was of no assistance.

In point of truth, it was all over.  It was barely possible that a strong and determined man
could have effected something had he known how to set about it--but Mr. Gunterson did not know
how.  No hack actor suddenly confronted with a strange and difficult part felt more inept than
he.  He conceived that within him was the power to deliver a tremendous blow--but he could
not find its mark.  Aimlessly he consulted his acquaintances along Kilby Street.  The agents
of the influential Conference companies, primed to resist interviews, greeted him affably,
congratulated him on his new connection, and blandly denied all knowledge of any radical move
in process.  That night Mr. Gunterson, having accomplished absolutely nothing, returned to
his hotel with an uneasy feeling of dissatisfaction with the day.

Wednesday came.  Gunterson, hesitant, undecided, in need of help, early sought his only ally,
Mr. Osgood.  At the door of their offices he met Mr. Osgood and Mr. Cole on their way to the
meeting of the Board.  The Vice-President of the Guardian fell meekly into step.  At the Board
rooms the agents were gathered; the meeting came to order; the order of business began.  After
the transaction of a few routine affairs Mr. Spence of Spence and Hardiwick rose and moved
that the Eastern Conference separation rule be extended to cover Boston.  His motion was seconded.
There was no debate, and the only speaker was cut short by a call for the question.

In the chorus of ayes, Mr. Osgood's negative went unheard and unnoted. The motion was carried
almost unanimously, Cole not voting, but permitting the senior partner to cast the vote for
the firm.  And all this time there sat at Mr. Osgood's side the restless but impotent form
of Mr. Gunterson.  Twice he started to speak, and then repressed himself, his face a little
flushed with helpless shame.  Beside Mr. Osgood he sat until the meeting concluded, and not
a word did he say.

The meeting adjourned.  In the hum of conversation Mr. Osgood turned to his junior partner.

"I'm through, Ben.  You will have to go on without me.  I cannot dismember my whole office
organization; but James Wintermuth is one of my oldest and dearest friends, and when Silas
Osgood and Company resign the Guardian--some one else must be in command."

Cole did not answer.  The three moved slowly toward the door, and there in the doorway stood
the author of their perplexity and distress. O'Connor saw them coming, and held out his hand
to the veteran underwriter.

"How do you do, Mr. Osgood," he said.  "I hope you don't bear any ill will to me for what has
just happened.  I said I thought the rule would go through, and you can see for yourself that
it was passed almost unanimously.  Perhaps we may be able to do business together after all.
Let us consider this as two sensible business men.  Of course I'm glad the rule went through;
but please don't think that I did it.  I don't own the Boston Board."

The other man regarded him steadily.

"Probably you are right, Mr. O'Connor," he replied.  "I do not seem to have correctly estimated
the sentiment of to-day.  No doubt you used your influence on the side of your company's interests.
But I do not care to do business with you, sir--on that point my mind is unchanged."

"Well, I'm sorry you feel that way about it," said the other, with the good nature which as
victor he could afford to maintain.  "Good-day, Mr. Osgood."

Mr. Osgood passed through the doorway, but Gunterson, following him, smitten with vague valor
and sudden fury, turned.

"You--you!" was all he said, at a loss for words in his anger, and the President of the Salamander
met him with a smile of humorous contempt.

"Why, hello!" he said, "here's Gunterson!  Come to Boston to find a new agent, I suppose. 
So did I, to tell the truth.  Good luck, old man."

Mr. Gunterson turned his back on his tormentor, and passed on.  He could think of no appropriate
retort.  But the situation could not be saved by any degree of repartee.  Boston had voted
for separation; Silas Osgood and Company must resign the Guardian; and Samuel Gunterson had
made a humiliating failure of his quest.

Into his throbbing brain, however, a new idea had come, suggested by O'Connor's taunt.  A new
agent!  Why not?  If the Osgood office, consisting largely of Conference companies, was obliged
to resign the Guardian, there must be some other agency where non-Conference companies predominated
and where he could place the Guardian upon the withdrawal of a Conference company.  After all,
the Osgood office was not the only good agency in Boston.  A new vigor fortified him--he would
find an agent for the Guardian who should excel the Osgood connection as the sun outshines
the moon.

In one office of perhaps more notoriety than prominence, though Mr. Gunterson knew it not,
at that very moment the matter was being discussed.

"Well, Jake," said Sternberg, of Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy, "they've passed it."

"What did I tell you?" demanded Jake Bloom.  "Didn't I tell you them Conference companies would
get what they wanted?  They got it, all right.  Now the question is, what do we get out of it?"

"What do you mean?" asked Sternberg, slowly.  He was large and bald, and had a dead-white,
soft-looking, pock-marked face, while Bloom was short, black, and untidy.

"Well, I mean for one thing, the Guardian gets thrown out of the Osgood agency.  They're on
the street.  Why shouldn't we get 'em?"

"Sure!  Why not?" Sternberg rejoined with enthusiasm.  "We've got to get some one else in here
before long or we'll be up in the air.  I'm afraid we've been salting some of our people too
hard.  It sort of jarred me when the Spokane left us.  We've got to do something pretty quick.
Now, how will we get at Gunterson?  He don't know us."

"And a blame good thing he don't," said McCoy, with perfect frankness. "A swell chance we'd
have of landing the Guardian if we'd had the Elsass-Lothringen!  There's no use of talking--we've
been writing too freely.  We must cut out the skates.  Now, let's get together and land Gunterson."

"That's all right, too.  But if we cut out the skates, what'll we have left?  Anyhow, the main
question is how'll we land Gunterson?" Sternberg persisted.  The mind of this large man moved
as slowly as a house in a small town being transported from one lot to another by one mule,
a rope, and a windlass.  McCoy's mind more resembled the agile and evasive flea.

"I bet my cousin Billy Gallagher knows him.  Come to think of it, Billy was special agent up
here for the Florida Fire and Marine at the time Gunterson was running them.  We can square
Billy all right, and I believe Billy can put it over."

"It looks like a cinch to me," said Bloom, lighting a cigarette.

"It is," said McCoy, briefly.

It was.  And so it came about that in the forenoon of the following day a solemn trio of men,
two Hebrews and an Irishman, were bowing a polite welcome to the distinguished Vice-President
of the Guardian of New York, who, in company with his friend Mr. Gallagher, now an independent
loss adjuster, had honored them with a call.  Mr. Gunterson confessed that he was considering
a change in the Guardian's Boston representation; he had not gone so far as to commit himself,
but he was looking around--of course among the few agents with whom non-Conference companies
predominated.

It had been agreed by the trio that McCoy should do the talking for the firm, and McCoy came
from an island where the art of persuasive conversation is far from extinct.

"Well, Mr. Gunterson, I want to say right off the reel that Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy would
like very much to take on the Guardian.  The Guardian's got a good name, and its policy sells
well; and in the last few weeks, especially--" he threw out suggestively.

"What's the last few weeks got to do with it?" inquired the innocent and obliging visitor.

"Well, I meant the company's desirability from the agent's point of view.  You see, they've
never had a really broad-gauge man directing their underwriting before you took charge.  Nice
people, but narrow, you understand--not a company that an agent would feel drawn to. O'Connor
never had no nerve--or if he did, Wintermuth never let him show it.  Now, no really progressive
agent can do business with a petty piker.  To get the best results you've got to let your agent
run his field.  Take your time, make the best appointment you can, and then give your agent
a free hand--that's the only way to get a liberal income and make money too."

To these sage but scarcely original observations Sternberg and Bloom gravely assented.

"In case you found a place for us in your office, what kind of an income do you think we might
expect?" Mr. Gunterson asked.

"Well, we wouldn't take you at all unless we could satisfy you," replied McCoy.  "And I swear
I don't quite see how we could take on another company just now.  How much are you getting
now from Osgood? Well, if we couldn't do better than that, we'd rather pass you up--although
I don't know of any company that looks better to me than the Guardian under its present management.
How about it, Jake?"

Mr. Bloom considered deeply.

"New business of the class this office writes is hard to get," he said thoughtfully.  "It don't
fall off the trees into your lap.  But we might do it if we gave up a couple of our smaller
companies.  If we threw out the German National and the Spokane Fire, we might do something."

The two companies named had removed their policies and supplies from the office only the previous
day, their respective special agents, after an underwriting experience too painful to describe,
having descended in grief and rage upon their Boston representatives when patience had ceased
to be a virtue and self-preservation had become the salient motive.

"There's thirty thousand apiece, easy--say sixty thousand the first year.  Yes, we could let
them two go, and if you were in any kind of way liberal--if you wrote a fair line in the congested
district--we could guarantee you sixty thousand, and I believe we'd make it seventy-five."

Mr. Gunterson calculated this with deliberation.  It was a great deal more than the Guardian
had been receiving from Silas Osgood and Company; it sounded too good to be real.

"What kind of a record have you had?" he asked cautiously.

"Record?  Well, good for some of our companies and not so good for others.  We've had some
pretty hard knocks, but we don't write practically nothing but first-class business, and of
course we write pretty good-sized lines; and when some sprinkled risk or a brick apartment
house or a wool storage warehouse makes a total loss, it hits us pretty hard.  Still, if you
keep on taking on the best business, you're bound to make money in the long run.  I suppose
we turn down two thirds of what's offered to us over the counter."

"What commission would you expect?" Mr. Gunterson inquired.

"Whatever you're paying now is all right with us," McCoy responded promptly.  "And we'll guarantee
you a liberal increase in premiums the first year."

The heart of the Guardian's Vice-President swelled in his breast when he anticipated O'Connor's
chagrin over this development.

"The Spokane's man is in town," Bloom said, as if by an afterthought. "Put it in the form of
a contract, Mr. Gunterson, and I'll notify him to-day that we're holding his supplies subject
to his order."

The contract was promptly drawn, signed, and witnessed, each party retaining a copy, and Samuel
Gunterson, with the sting of defeat removed by this brilliant achievement, and with his self-esteem
and confidence wholly restored, turned blithely toward the South Station on his way to New York.

CHAPTER XV

Contemporary historians point out that in Egypt, more than four thousand years ago, those who
bore bad tidings to the reigning monarch were in the habit of meeting death so swiftly that
they could scarcely have been incommoded by the circumstance.  In fact, they had all the satisfaction
of inevitable demise with none of the discomforts necessarily attendant on lingering annihilation.

Mr. Samuel Gunterson, returning from Boston with the signed contract of Sternberg, Bloom, and
McCoy, presently found himself in the position of sensing all the restlessness and unhappiness
of an expiring frame with no hope of an early easement by carefree and cheerful decease.  For
the news of his first important agency appointment was received by William Street in a manner
not at all calculated to flatter the man who had made it.  Of the numerous opinions expressed
or unexpressed, ranging from polite incredulity to unholy joy or open contempt, the only quality
which all these opinions held in common was their invidiousness.

The appointment received perhaps its most kindly treatment from those most directly concerned.
Mr. Wintermuth did not know anything about Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy--in fact, he had never
heard of them.  And so, when Mr. Gunterson, in his most convincing rhetoric; explained the
merits of the new agents and the increased income which he felt confident the Guardian would
receive, the President gave his assent, merely expressing his deep regret at concluding his
business relations with Silas Osgood.

"But Mr. Osgood is retiring from the firm, anyway," said Mr. Gunterson.

"Indeed?  I am glad to hear it," said Mr. Wintermuth.

With which comment the matter came to its discussion's end between them.  Nor did the President
learn for a long time the real truth regarding his Boston appointees, for with increasing years
he had grown increasingly difficult of access and intolerant of ideas conceived on the outside
and not in accord with his own.  The men who once could have come to him and frankly told him
that the Guardian's Boston appointment was a colossal blunder were, like himself, grown insensibly
out of the true current of underwriting affairs, while those who knew the truth lacked either
the purpose or the opportunity to lay before him the exact state of affairs.

Among those who could not carry out their inclinations was Smith, for he saw very little of
Mr. Wintermuth in these early days of the premiership of Gunterson; and he felt, moreover,
that the President, knowing his opinion of Mr. Gunterson, would be inclined to discount his
criticism on matters connected with the administration of the Vice-President.  So Mr. Wintermuth
lived in ignorance until the results began to show on the surface--which was not a far day.

From William Street, however, the busy and irreverent Street, soon came the slings and arrows
which pierced even Mr. Gunterson's almost impregnable self-esteem.  Only a few days after his
return he overheard a conversation between Mr. Cuyler and a placer, in the Guardian's own office,
which showed how the Street regarded the Boston appointment.

"Sorry, but I can't take that, Eddy; we don't write the shoe polish manufacturers at all--there's
too much naphtha used, and they all burn eventually," were the words that caught his attention,
and in the shadow of the door he waited for the reply.

"Ah, come off, now--loosen up!  I know the Guardian does write the class, for this same concern's
got a factory in Boston and I got a Guardian policy on it only yesterday.  That's why I'm giving
you this. Your Boston agents, Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy, place the Boston end for us.  What's
the matter--don't your agents have any prohibited list, or do you let them do things you can't
do in your own office?"

"Eddy," said Mr. Cuyler, sternly, "you're talking nonsense.  I tell you we don't write the
class in my department, and I don't believe the agency department does.  The Boston firm you
mention has just been appointed, and probably they don't know our underwriting policy yet."
He handed back the binder.

The placer, realizing that the decision was final, and irritated at the declination of a risk
which he had found impossible to place elsewhere, laughed loudly.

"Don't know your underwriting policy, hey?  Well, they don't need to--they've got an underwriting
policy of their own.  Do you know what it is?  It's to take a line on anything that's not actually
on fire. They're the slop bucket of Boston, the standard lemon of Kilby Street; they've got
a loss ratio of three thousand per cent, and they've burnt the hide off every company that's
ever touched them.  You make me tired.  You're a fine, consistent bunch, you are--to pose as
a conservative company in New York and write every skate in Boston through Sternberg, Bloom,
and McCoy!  All right--good-by."

And in his exit his coat sleeve almost brushed against the man in the hall who in his haste
and folly had appointed Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy to represent the Guardian in the good city
of Boston.

This was but the beginning.  After this overture the stings and slurs came thick and fast.
It seemed to the dismayed Vice-President that every one in New York took delight in recalling
to publicity some detail discreditable to his Bostonian discovery.  From all over the East
he began to receive applications for agencies from men whom even he knew to be unworthy of
trust; and he realized that he had encouraged their approach like vultures on the unhappy Guardian.
Within a fortnight of making the Boston appointment he had seriously considered revoking it;
but this would have necessitated the admission of his initial error, and he lacked the courage
to carry out his better judgment.  So, with a shrug of his mental shoulders and a cynical reflection
that good luck might perhaps avert the results of his imprudence, he let the matter stand.

But good luck failed to materialize, and it was not long before the expected began to happen.
Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy's business appeared outwardly passable, but curiously enough it
almost always seemed--after the loss--that the risk was one on which the company should never
have been committed.  And there were two unpleasant incidents where the Guardian was "caught
on a binder"--where the loss occurred before the agents could issue the policy or report the
acceptance of the risk to the New York office; and though Smith investigated these, and in
each case was obliged to hold the agents blameless, the experience left an unfortunate impression.
However, Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy undoubtedly controlled an unusually large volume of business.
If losses were heavy, so were premiums, and the relatively small losses which naturally attend
a growing business where no policy has been in force more than a month or two, postponed, for
a time at least, the worst of the evil days.  But long before they came the heavens had grown
dark with trouble in numerous other quarters.

The general ruling of the Conference, providing that, except under almost impossible qualifications
and with reduced compensation, no agent could continue to represent both Conference and non-Conference
companies, was now in effect.  And it seemed as though never before had there been such precision
and unanimity in Conference methods; and Smith, gloomily regarding the grim spectacle of the
Guardian's decline, could only curse under his breath the act of O'Connor that had brought
about this state of affairs.

Certainly there was no hesitancy about the Conference campaign, and the results became at once
apparent in the non-Conference offices.  Hardly a day passed which failed to bring to the Guardian
the resignation of one or more of its agents, with none to take their places except the vultures,
many of whom Mr. Gunterson remembered to have assisted in accelerating the downfall of some
of the other underwriting institutions with which he had been connected.  With a chill of dismay
he read of what a splendid opening awaited the Guardian in the general agency of Henry Trafalgar
and Company of Memphis, or Bates and Newsome of Atlanta.

From the Guardian's own agents the letters of resignation were very much alike, for the company
was popular in a modest way, and most of the writers had represented it for many years.

"We are notified by the committee in charge of this district," they wrote, "that in order to
secure the customary graded commission scale we must resign our non-Conference companies. 
We are extremely sorry to let the Guardian go, but the difference to us financially is such
that we would not feel justified in declining the Conference offer."

And so, one after one, they went.  Many an agent wrote bitterly attacking the Conference procedure
and asking whether the Guardian could not arrange to take care of his entire business, and
stating that if this could be done he would retain the Guardian and let the others go.  This,
however, in nearly every case was out of the question, and eventually all these agencies went
with their fellows.  During the first month of the new year almost one hundred agents, some
of them among the most satisfactory and profitable of the Guardian's plant, had been compelled
to resign.  The income from these agencies reached to the neighborhood of one hundred thousand
dollars annually, and Mr. Wintermuth began to take decided notice of his strategic position.

Of course, whenever an agency was lost, there was the possibility of replacing the company
in some non-Conference office; but this was not so easy a matter.  The non-Conference agents
were principally lower grade, cut-rate concerns, and not of the standard either professionally
or financially to which the Guardian was accustomed.  The company's field men, continually
confronted by the discouraging task of finding in a town a satisfactory agent, when none existed
save in Conference offices, became disheartened.  Their letters to the home office indicated
their demoralization and Mr. Gunterson could not think how to direct their campaigns for them.

At this juncture the hand on the reins needed to be both delicate and firm, and the hand of
Mr. Gunterson, while it may have had its moments of inflexibility, was never delicate.  And
it was firm with less and less frequency as the days went by.  Never any too well convinced,
at the bottom of his heart, of the soundness of any course he elected to pursue, the apparent
necessity of sitting helplessly in his office and watching his agency plant disintegrate before
his eyes robbed him of much of the assurance that had always been one of his predominant factors.
Outwardly his manner remained as impressive as ever, but it was retained with an ever increasing
difficulty.

In this dark hour his only sustaining reflection was that this rule, which was working such
havoc among the Guardian's smaller agencies, did not apply to the larger cities whence came
a large proportion of the company's premium income.  Boston, of course, with a local rule even
more radical than that of the field generally, had gone the way of the small towns; but in
New York separation was out of the question since most of the important companies maintained
their own local departments, dispensing with agents altogether; in Philadelphia the local underwriters
had never been able to agree among themselves on any drastic measures and there seemed no likelihood
of a change; while in Buffalo, Pittsburgh, and Baltimore soothingly sepulchral silence and
calm reigned.

As the month of January gave place to the briefest of his brothers, a temporary lull in hostilities
appeared to have arrived.  Mr. Gunterson, drawing a long breath, was wondering if it could
be possible that the worst of the tempest had passed, when eruptions from three craters burst
forth almost simultaneously, and by the light of their flames it was seen that all which had
gone before was of minor moment compared to that which was now to come.

It was about the third week in February that a Conference war was declared in Philadelphia,
Buffalo, and Baltimore.  In the ears of Mr. Gunterson the triple detonation rang terribly,
like the very voice of doom, and it was with the desperation of hopelessness that he addressed
himself to the solution of this new problem.

He no longer trusted himself as direct mediator; his Boston experience had cured him of all
personal meddlesomeness; it was much more dignified to remain quietly in New York directing
the efforts of his subordinates and criticizing them when they failed to accomplish the impossible.
He did not care to expose himself to another Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy triumvirate.  So he
sat in his office, dictating letters and giving endless pieces of impracticable advice to special
agents who inwardly cursed; and to Mr. Wintermuth he bore weirdly distorted versions of situations
and crises beyond any power of his to unravel or even to explain.

Even on matters of fact he was pleasingly vague.

"How many agencies have we lost?" the President demanded on one occasion.

"Really, I could hardly say exactly," Mr. Gunterson responded.  "You see, some that haven't
actually resigned have stopped sending us business--to any extent.  But," he added, "we can
more than make up such losses in income when our new appointments show the full results of
their business."

"How long do you calculate that's going to take?" abruptly inquired the usually courteous Mr.
Wintermuth.

Mr. Gunterson did not know, but he was decidedly of the opinion that it could not be very long
before the tide was stemmed.

But as the days went by the tide continued to run in the same direction.  Baltimore, threatening
dire things, hung trembling in the balance; Buffalo had already gone over to the enemy; Philadelphia
was as yet hesitating before the final irrevocable leap.  So February wore away, and March entered.

James Wintermuth was more disturbed than he had been at any time covered by what was now a
good and had once been a miraculous memory. His company had so long been his pride, his reliance,
his solace, and almost his gospel that he had grown to think of it as a sort of fixed star,
whose light perhaps might be exceeded by some larger and more pretentious luminary, but which
would nevertheless shine steadily on, beyond the fear of any cosmic upheaval.

Now he beheld it not only overclouded, but even menaced--beheld its light in danger of being
dimmed if not utterly extinguished.  It was absurd, it was tragic, it was unbelievable--yet
it was so.  And when he was confronted with the fact, there crept back into the old gentleman's
heart something of his old fire, as well as a slow, brooding sense of angry injury against
the men or forces responsible for his present difficulties.  His elder resentment was of course
against O'Connor, who was taking advantage in every way of the Guardian's misfortunes; but
as the palpably weakening hold of the company brought him more closely in touch with its underwriting
affairs, as the questionable losses from Boston and other similar agencies began to arrive
in faster and faster succession, and he clearly perceived the weakness and incapability of
Gunterson's management, his irritation rightly directed itself more and more against the luckless
Vice-President.

One other thing of recent occurrence had shaken--perhaps out of proportion to its consequences--what
little confidence he still felt in the judgment of his underwriting manager.  That related
to the attempt of Mr. Gunterson to inject his advice into the Guardian's affairs financial.
Early in February he had suggested to Mr. Wintermuth the advisability of purchasing for the
Guardian some bonds of an embryonic steel company then erecting a plant in Alabama.  Mr. Gunterson
knew personally some of the people back of this, the bonds seemed remarkably cheap, and the
bonus in common stock made the proposition in his opinion decidedly attractive.  Mr. Wintermuth's
investigation of the concern and its prospectus had quickly convinced him that its officers
were of far more capability in the industry of disposing of what, by a polite extension of
the term, might be called securities than in manufacturing steel, and a skeptical investing
public evidently reached the same conclusion, for within a month after Mr. Gunterson's friendly
suggestion, the Birmingham Bessemer Steel Corporation was in the hands of a receiver, who,
after some hesitation, issued a statement to the effect that the bondholders might eventually
realize fifteen cents on every dollar they had paid in.

On the second day of March an unusual thing happened.  Mr. Cuyler entered the elevator and
mounted to the top floor of the Guardian building, crossing the floor toward Mr. Wintermuth's
office.

"Hello!  What are you doing up here?" Smith inquired, knowing the stars must be strangely out
of their courses to attract Mr. Cuyler to this unaccustomed altitude.  A true local department
man is always uncomfortable, never at home, above the grade floor.  "Has the Sub-Treasury or
the Aquarium made a total loss, or what's the matter?" he cheerfully proceeded.

"No," said Cuyler, sourly.  And without further answer he passed on into the President's room.

"Good-afternoon, Mr. Cuyler," said the President, amiably, but the local secretary with a glum
face stopped him.

"Well, we've lost O'Brien," he said.

"What's that?" demanded the other.  "Lost O'Brien?  What do you mean? Not O'Brien of One Hundred
and Twenty-fifth Street?"

"That's the man.  The best branch manager we ever had--the man we kept when the Exchange made
us close all our branch offices but one.  Well, he's thrown us."

"Thrown us!  O'Brien?  Why, he's been with us for fifteen years!  Tell me about this at once, sir."

"There's nothing to tell, or nothing much," replied the local secretary, bitterly.  "The business
he's been giving us has been dropping off,--we haven't got a new risk out of him in a month
and we've been losing a lot of our renewals,--and yesterday Charlie saw his placer going into
the Salamander office with a bundle of binders."

"The Salamander?  O'Connor!"

"Yes, sir, O'Connor.  So to-day I went around to the restaurant where he eats when he comes
down town.  He was there."

"O'Brien, you mean?  Well, what did he say?"

"He said," replied Cuyler, slowly, "that he had no complaint to make of the way we'd treated
him, but that the Salamander was offering him facilities which we didn't offer him, and he
felt obliged to do something for them."

"He means they're paying him excess brokerage or something of that sort," said Mr. Wintermuth,
acidly.

"Yes, I suppose so, but of course that's a thing you can't say unless you're in a position
to prove it.  Anyhow, he's gone--and about twenty thousand dollars worth of preferred business
with a thirty per cent loss ratio for ten years has gone with him."

The President rose and walked up and down his office.  This was bringing the fight to his very
door, with a vengeance.

"What can we do about it?" he said, stopping in front of Cuyler and fixing on that dismayed
person a vaguely furious gaze.

"I don't know.  I suppose we'll have to hunt around and dig up another branch manager in O'Brien's
place.  It'll take a lot of hunting, though.  You don't pick up a business like that every
day in the week."

The President could make no better suggestion, and in this instance he did not call the Vice-President
into conference.

"Do the best you can, then," he said shortly; "and let me know how you're getting along."

Mr. Cuyler descended gloomily to his proper milieu, and took up the task of finding a branch
office manager to replace the recreant O'Brien.  But agents like O'Brien were few, and most
of the best of them had their own old-established connections with other companies. Again,
the Guardian's reputation for conservatism made Cuyler's task the harder.  One or two, after
considering the matter, were frightened away by their dread lest the Guardian accept nothing
but their more desirable risks, making it all the more difficult for them to place those that
were not so desirable.  The Guardian's local secretary had as wide an acquaintance as any man
on the Street, but he found himself confronted by an exceedingly difficult problem.

Meanwhile a branch manager must be secured.  The company's local income was dropping behind
in a way that had not happened within the memory of man.  In this state of affairs it was not
long before Cuyler again sought Mr. Wintermuth, and this time the advice of Mr. Gunterson was
solicited.

It had been nearly a week since Mr. Gunterson had been impaled upon any very serious dilemma,
and in this interval he had regained much of his shaken confidence, so that he addressed himself
to the solution of Mr. Cuyler's difficulties with much of his pristine assurance.

"Why not get Joe Darkner?  He's got a fine class of business and a lot of it," he suggested
at once.

"Yes, but he's sewed up body and soul with the National of Norway," Cuyler responded shortly.

"Well, what's the matter with Hart and Leith?"

"Nothing but East Side stuff.  Besides, they're dead ones--won't last out the year," replied
the local underwriter, somewhat impatiently.  As though he had not canvassed such obvious possibilities
as these!

"Why not try Schermerhorn and Snow?" was Mr. Gunterson's next suggestion.

The President broke into the discussion.

"They've been uptown managers of the Inland for twenty years.  And Snow is a big stockholder
in the company.  We would be wasting our time to approach them."

There was a hint of contempt in his tone.  A man who volunteered helpful advice about a difficult
situation without being in possession of the most rudimentary information bearing on it was
hardly worthy of serious attention.  Perhaps the keen ear of the Vice-President detected this,
for he flushed slightly, and was silent for a moment.

"I'll give the matter my attention," he said reassuringly to Cuyler. "I'm a little out of touch
with local affairs, but I know plenty of first-rate uptown brokers, and I guess I can locate
us to good advantage.  I'll see you about it later."

And he made his majestic exit.

The matter being now under his august advisement, it might have been supposed that relief was
in sight and a new and desirable connection as good as made.  But in less than a week from
the time of this conversation Mr. Cuyler again sought the President, and the expression of
his face could not have been misinterpreted.

"Well, what's the matter now?" Mr. Wintermuth inquired, as the local underwriter seated himself.

"Who do you think is gone now?" said Cuyler, abruptly.

"Who?" demanded his superior officer.

"Jenkinson--and Hammond, Dow, and Company."

"Gone!" repeated the President, slowly.  The brokers in question were known to be on the most
friendly terms with the company, and it was generally supposed that the first choice of most
of their business went to the Guardian.  "Gone!  What do you mean?  Nothing has happened to
either of those people!  What are you talking of?"

"I mean they're gone, so far as the Guardian is concerned.  We've taken as much as ten thousand
a year from each of those offices.  And now O'Connor's got them."

The President looked at him in silence.

"I knew something was the matter, and to-day I saw O'Connor and Jenkinson at lunch, laughing
and talking as familiar as though they'd been friends for years.  It's no use, sir--he's going
after every really good broker that we've got attached to us."

"But the Salamander can't take care of all their business.  Why, those two firms must do business
with nearly every office on the Street, anyway."

"The Salamander will take all the best of the business we get now, or most of it, and help
them out, I suppose, on a lot of tough risks that I've never been willing to write.  O'Connor's
a plunger, you know, when he's got a gambling company back of him.  It looks to me as if we'd
only get what he left--targets, and big lines where Jenkinson and Hammond Dow have enough to
go round."

Mr. Cuyler's oldest friend had never seen him more troubled than at this moment.  So deep,
in fact, was his gloom that the President put aside his own concern to try to reassure his
old counterman.  In this he succeeded not at all; Mr. Cuyler's dejection was settled.

"What about a branch manager in place of O'Brien?" inquired Mr. Wintermuth at length, thinking
at least to change the subject, and hoping to touch a brighter theme.  Mr. Cuyler's face darkened
still further, if such a thing were possible.

"Nothing doing," he said inelegantly but comprehensively.

"Hasn't Mr. Gunterson--?" the President began, but he stopped short. "What's that?" he asked
sharply.  "What were you going to say?"

"I guess I'd better not say it," responded the local underwriter with deliberation.

"Go ahead," said his chief.

"Well, then," the other answered, "I was going to say 'To hell with Gunterson!'"

Mr. Wintermuth leaned back in his chair, with his eyes fixed on his subordinate.

"Cuyler," he said, "Mr. Gunterson is your superior officer, and that was an entirely improper
thing for you to say.  But I've known you, Cuyler, for forty years, and I don't mind telling
you that that is exactly what I have been wanting to say about Mr. Gunterson for the last three
weeks."

A rueful smile broke through the gloom of both.

"Well, I'm glad you feel the same way about it, and I'm glad I got it out of my system; but
I don't see that it helps things much, does it?" the local underwriter replied.

"I'm not so sure of that," said Mr. Wintermuth.  "It helps me, and possibly the assistance
will spread to the whole situation later on."

Meanwhile the gentleman who was thus summarily consigned to the infernal regions was doing
his vague utmost to cope with three situations at once, any one of which would have been entirely
beyond his capabilities to control.  New York, Philadelphia, and the Eastern field as a whole,--each
was a problem in itself, and each was getting farther and farther out of hand.  The Guardian's
field men were demoralized, beholding the fine agency plant of their company crumble and melt
away while they stood helpless to hold it together.  And Mr. Gunterson, when asked for remedies,
could reply only in nebulous words of even more crepuscular and doubtful pertinence.  New York
was admittedly beyond him, and Philadelphia, harkening to siren voices that promised great
things, was presently to vote on the separation rule for that city.

