We finished our case with all the prisoners identified, and some of them doubly. The defence
was scarcely more than a sham. The flimsy alibis were destroyed even by the incompetent, unready
Rocklin, and when the charge came blackness fell upon the citizens of Tucson. The judge's cold
statements struck them as partisan, and they murmured and looked darkly at him. But the jury,
with its Meakums, wore no expression at all during any of his remarks. Their eyes were upon
him, but entirely fishlike. He dismissed the cumbersome futilities one by one. "Now three witnesses
have between them recognized all the prisoners but one," he continued. "That one, a reputed
pauper, paid several hundred dollars of debts in gold the morning after the robbery. The money
is said to be the proceeds of a cattle sale. No cattle have ever been known to belong to this
man, and the purchaser had never been known to have any income until this trial began. The
prisoner's name was on Mrs. Sproud's paper. The statement of one witness that he sat on a stone
and saw three other of the prisoners firing has been contradicted by a woman who described
herself as having run away at once; it is supported by two men who are admitted by all to have
remained, and in consequence been shot. Their statements have been assailed by no one. Their
testimony stands on the record unimpeached. They have identified five prisoners. If you believe
them--and remember that not a word they said has been questioned--" here the judge emphasized
more and more clearly. He concluded with the various alternatives of fact according to which
the jury must find its several possible verdicts. When he had finished, the room sat sullen
and still, and the twelve went out. I am told that they remained ten minutes away. It seemed
one to me.

When they had resumed their seats I noticed the same fishlike oracular eye in most of them
unchanged. "Not guilty," said the foreman.

"What!" shouted the judge, startled out of all judicial propriety. "None of 'em?"

"Not guilty," monotonously repeated the foreman.

We were silent amid the din of triumph now raised by Tucson. In the laughter, the hand-shaking,
the shouting, and the jubilant pistol-shots that some particularly free spirit fired in the
old Cathedral Square, we went to our dinner; and not even Stirling could joke. "There's a certain
natural justice done here in spite of them," he said. "They are not one cent richer for all
their looted twenty-eight thousand. They come out free, but penniless."

"How about Jenks and that jury?" said I. And Stirling shrugged his shoulders.

But we had yet some crowning impudence to learn. Later, in the street, the officers and I met
the prisoners, their witnesses, and their counsel emerging from a photographer's studio. The
Territorial Delegate had been taken in a group with his acquitted thieves. The Bishop had declined
to be in this souvenir.

"That's a picture I want," said I. "Only I'll be sorry to see your face there," I added to
black curly.

"Indeed!" put in Jenks.

"Yes," said I. "You and he do not belong in the same class. By-the-way, Mr. Jenks, I suppose
you'll return their horses and saddles now?"

Too many were listening for him to lose his temper, and he did a sharp thing. He took this
public opportunity for breaking some news to his clients. "I had hoped to," he said; "that
is, as many as were not needed to defray necessary costs. But it's been an expensive suit,
and I've found myself obliged to sell them all. It's little enough to pay for clearing your
character, boys."

They saw through his perfidy to them, and that he had them checkmated. Any protest from them
would be a confession of their theft. Yet it seemed an unsafe piece of villany in Jenks.

"They look disappointed," I remarked. "I shall value the picture very highly."

