During the early part of his artistic life Apelles did little else than paint such pictures
as exalted the fame of Philip, and afterward that of Alexander. He painted many portraits of
both these great men; for one of Alexander he received nearly twenty-five thousand dollars;
in it the monarch was represented as grasping the thunderbolt, as Jupiter might have done,
and the hand appeared to be stretched out from the picture. This portrait was in the splendid
temple of Diana, or Artemis, at Ephesus. Alexander was accustomed to say of it, "There are
two Alexanders, one invincible, the living son of Philip--the other immutable, the picture
of Apelles."

Later in his life Apelles painted many pictures of mythological subjects. He visited Alexandria,
in Egypt; he did not win the favor of King Ptolemy, and his enemies in the Egyptian court played
cruel practical jokes upon him. On one occasion he received an invitation to a feast at which
the king had not desired his presence. The monarch was angry; but Apelles told him the truth,
and appeased his wrath by sketching on the wall the exact likeness of the servant who had carried
the invitation to him. However, Ptolemy remained unfavorable to him, and Apelles painted a
great picture, called Calumny, in which he represented those who had been his enemies, and
thus held them up to the scorn of the world. Apelles visited Rhodes and Athens, but is thought
to have died in the island of Kos, where he had painted two very beautiful pictures of the
goddess Venus. One of these is called the Venus Anadyomene, or Venus rising from the sea. The
emperor Augustus carried this picture to Rome, and placed so high a value on it that he lessened
the tribute-money of the people of Kos a hundred talents on account of it. This sum was about
equal to one hundred thousand dollars of our money.

The art of Apelles was full of grace and sweetness, and the finish of his pictures was exquisite.
The saying, "leave off in time," originated in his criticism of Protogenes, of whom he said
that he was his superior except that he did not know when to leave off, and by too much finishing
lessened the effect of his work. Apelles was modest and generous: he was the first to praise
Protogenes, and conferred a great benefit upon the latter by buying up his pictures, and giving
out word that he was going to sell them as his own. Apelles was never afraid to correct those
who were ignorant, and was equally ready to learn from any one who could teach him anything.
It is said that on one occasion, when Alexander was in his studio, and talked of art, Apelles
advised him to be silent lest his color-grinder should laugh at him. Again, when he had painted
a picture, and exposed it to public view, a cobbler pointed out a defect in the shoe-latchet;
Apelles changed it, but when the man next proceeded to criticise the leg of the figure, Apelles
replied, "Cobbler, stick to your last." These sayings have descended to our own day, and have
become classical. All these anecdotes from so remote a time are in a sense doubtful; but they
are very interesting--young people ought to be familiar with them, but it is also right to
say that they are not known to be positively true.

Protogenes of Rhodes, to whom Apelles was so friendly, came to be thought a great painter.
It is said that when Demetrius made war against Rhodes the artist did not trouble himself to
leave his house, which was in the very midst of the enemy's camp. When questioned as to his
fearlessness he replied, "Demetrius makes war against the Rhodians, and not against the Arts."
It is also said that after hearing of this reply Demetrius refrained from burning the town,
in order to preserve the pictures of Protogenes.

The ancient writers mention many other Greek painters, but none as important as those of whom
we have spoken. Greek painting never reached a higher point than it had gained at the beginning
of the Hellenistic age. Every kind of painting except landscape-painting had been practised
by Greek artists; but that received no attention until figure-painting had declined. Vitruvius
mentions that the ancients had some very important wall-paintings consisting of simple landscapes,
and that others had landscape backgrounds with figures illustrating scenes from the poems of
Homer. But we have no reason to believe that Greek landscape-painting was ever more than scenic
or decorative work, and thus fell far short of what is now the standard for such painting.

The painting of the early Romans was principally derived from or through the early Etruscans,
and the Etruscans are believed to have first learned their art from Greek artists, who introduced
plastic art into Italy as early as B.C. 655, when Demaratus was expelled from Corinth--and
later, Etruscan art was influenced by the Greek colonies of Magna Græcia. So it is fair to
say that Etruscan art and early Roman art were essentially Greek art. The earliest artists
who are known to have painted in Rome had Greek names, such as Ekphantos, Damophilos, and Gargasos.
Later on in history there are painters mentioned with Latin names, but there is little of interest
related concerning them; in truth, Ludius (who is also called by various authors Tadius and
Studius) is the only really interesting ancient Roman painter of whom we know. He lived in
the time of Augustus, and Pliny said of him: "Ludius, too, who lived in the age of the divine
Augustus, must not be cheated of his fame. He was the first to bring in a singularly delightful
fashion of wall-painting--villas, colonnades, examples of landscape-gardening, woods and sacred
groves, reservoirs, straits, rivers, coasts, all according to the heart's desire--and amidst
them passengers of all kinds on foot, in boats, driving in carriages, or riding on asses to
visit their country properties; furthermore fishermen, bird-catchers, hunters, vintagers; or,
again, he exhibits stately villas, to which the approach is through a swamp, with men staggering
under the weight of the frightened women whom they have bargained to carry on their shoulders;
and many another excellent and entertaining device of the same kind. The same artist also set
the fashion of painting views--and that wonderfully cheap--of seaside towns in broad daylight."

We cannot think that Ludius was the first painter, though he may have been the first Roman
painter, who made this sort of pictures, and he probably is the only one of whose work any
part remains. Brunn and other good authorities believe that the wall-painting of Prima Porta,
in Rome, was executed by Ludius. It represents a garden, and covers the four walls of a room.
It is of the decorative order of painting, as Pliny well understood, for he speaks of the difference
between the work of Ludius and that of the true artists who painted panel pictures and not
wall-paintings. After the time of Ludius we can give no trustworthy account of any fine, Roman
painter.

The works of the ancient painters which still remain in various countries are wall-paintings,
paintings on vases, mosaics, paintings on stone, and certain so-called miniatures; and besides
these principal works there are many small articles, such as mirrors, toilet-cases, and other
useful objects, which are decorated in colors.

We will first speak of the mural, or wall-paintings, as they are the most important and interesting
remains of ancient painting. We shall only consider such as have been found in Italy, as those
of other countries are few and unimportant.

