Napoleonder suddenly became furious. "May the pip seize your tongue, you miscreant! I'll show
you how much pity I have for you!" And, drawing a pistol, Napoleonder shot the wounded soldier
through the head. Then, turning to his dead men, he said: "Did you see that?"

"We saw it," they replied; "and as long as it is so, we are your faithful servants always."

Napoleonder rode on.

At last night comes; and Napoleonder is sitting alone in his golden tent. His mind is troubled,
and he can't understand what it is that seems to be gnawing at his heart. For years he has
been at war, and this is the first time such a thing has happened. Never before has his soul
been so filled with unrest. And to-morrow morning he must begin another battle--the last terrible
fight with the Tsar Alexander the Blessed, on the field of Borodino.

"Akh!" he thinks, "I'll show them to-morrow what a leader I am! I'll lift the soldiers of the
Tsar into the air on my lances and trample their bodies under the feet of my horses. I'll make
the Tsar himself a prisoner, and I'll kill or scatter the whole Russian people."

But a voice seemed to whisper in his ear: "And why? Why?"

"I know that trick," he thought. "It's that same wounded soldier again. All right. I won't
give in to him. 'Why? Why?' As if I knew why! Perhaps if I knew why I shouldn't make war."

He lay down on his bed; but hardly had he closed his eyes when he saw by his bedside the wounded
soldier--young, fair-faced, blond-haired, with just the first faint shadow of a mustache. His
forehead was pale, his lips were livid, his blue eyes were dim, and in his left temple there
was a round black hole made by the bullet from his--Napoleonder's--pistol. And the ghastly
figure seemed to ask again, "Why did you kill me?"

Napoleonder turns over and over, from side to side, in his bed. He sees that it's a bad business.
He can't get rid of that soldier. And, more than all, he wonders at himself. "What an extraordinary
occurrence!" he thinks. "I've killed millions of people, of all countries and nations, without
the least misgiving; and now, suddenly, one miserable soldier comes and throws all my ideas
into a tangle!"

Finally Napoleonder got up; but the confinement of his golden tent seemed oppressive. He went
out into the open air, mounted his horse, and rode away to the place where he had shot to death
the vexatious soldier.

"I've heard," he said to himself, "that when a dead man appears in a vision, it is necessary
to sprinkle earth on the eyes of the corpse; then he'll lie quiet."

Napoleonder rides on. The moon is shining brightly, and the bodies of the dead are lying on
the battle-field in heaps. Everywhere he sees corruption and smells corruption.

"And all these," he thought, "I have killed."

And, wonderful to say, it seems to him as if all the dead men have the same face,--a young
face with blue eyes, and blond hair, and the faint shadow of a mustache,--and they all seem
to be looking at him with kindly, pitying eyes, and their bloodless lips move just a little
as they ask, without anger or reproach, "Why? Why?"

Napoleonder felt a dull, heavy pressure at his heart. He had not spirit enough left to go to
the little mound where the body of the dead soldier lay, so he turned his horse and rode back
to his tent; and every corpse that he passed seemed to say, "Why? Why?"

He no longer felt the desire to ride at a gallop over the dead bodies of the Russian soldiers.
On the contrary, he picked his way among them carefully, riding respectfully around the remains
of every man who had died with honor on that field of blood; and now and then he even crossed
himself and said: "Akh, that one ought to have lived! What a fine fellow that one was! He must
have fought with splendid courage. And I killed him--why?"

The great conqueror never noticed that his heart was growing softer and warmer, but so it was.
He pitied his dead enemies at last, and then the evil spirit went away from him, and left him
in all respects like other people.

The next day came the battle. Napoleonder led his forces, cloud upon cloud, to the field of
Borodino; but he was shaking as if in a chill. His generals and field-marshals looked at him
and were filled with dismay.

"You ought to take a drink of vodka, Napoleonder," they say; "you don't look like yourself."

When the Russian troops attacked the hordes of Napoleonder, on the field of Borodino, the soldiers
of the great conqueror at once gave way.

"It's a bad business, Napoleonder," the generals and field-marshals say. "For some reason the
Russians are fighting harder to-day than ever. You'd better call out your dead men."

Napoleonder shouted at the top of his voice, "Bonaparty!"--six hundred and sixty-six,--the
number of the Beast. But, cry as he would, he only frightened the jackdaws. The dead men didn't
come out of their graves, nor answer his call. And Napoleonder was left on the field of Borodino
alone. All his generals and field-marshals had fled, and he sat there alone on his horse, shouting,
"Bonaparty! Bonaparty!"

Then suddenly there appeared beside him the smooth-faced, blue-eyed, fair-haired Russian recruit
whom he had killed the day before. And the young soldier said: "It's useless to shout, Napoleonder.
Nobody will come. Yesterday you felt sorry for me and for my dead brothers, and because of
your pity your corpse-soldiers no longer come at your call. Your power over them is gone."

Then Napoleonder began to weep and sob, and cried out, "You have ruined me, you wretched, miserable
soldier!"

But the soldier (who was Ivan-angel, and not a soldier at all) replied: "I have not ruined
you, Napoleonder; I have saved you. If you had gone on in your merciless, pitiless course,
there would have been no forgiveness for you, either in this life or in the life to come. Now
God has given you time for repentance. In this world you shall be punished; but there, beyond,
if you repent of your sins, you shall be forgiven."

And the angel vanished.

Then our Don Cossacks fell on Napoleonder, dragged him from his horse, and took him to Alexander
the Blessed. Some said, "Napoleonder ought to be shot!" Others cried, "Send him to Siberia
to!" But the Lord God softened the heart of Alexander the Blessed, and the merciful Tsar would
not allow Napoleonder to be shot or sent to Siberia. He ordered that the great conqueror be
put into an iron cage, and be carried around and exhibited to the people at country fairs.
So Napoleonder was carried from one fair to another for a period of thirty summers and three
years--until he had grown quite old. Then, when he was an old man, they sent him to the island
of Buan to watch geese.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NAPOLEON OF THE PEOPLE[1]

[Footnote 1: A story told to a group of French peasants one evening, in a barn, by Goguelat,
the village postman, who had served under Napoleon in a regiment of infantry.]

Napoleon, my friends, was born, you know, in Corsica. That's a French island, but it's warmed
by the sun of Italy, and everything's as hot there as if it were a furnace. It's a place, too,
where the people kill one another, from father to son, generation after generation, for nothing
at all; that is, for no reason in particular except that it's their way.

Well, to begin with the most wonderful part of the story, it so happened that on the very day
when Napoleon was born, his mother dreamed that the world was on fire. She was a shrewd, clever
woman, as well as the prettiest woman of her time; and when she had this dream, she thought
she'd save her son from the dangers of life by dedicating him to God. And, indeed, that was
a prophetic dream of hers! So she asked God to protect the boy, and promised that when he grew
up he should reestablish God's holy religion, which had then been overthrown. That was the
agreement they made; and although it seems strange, such things have happened. It's sure and
certain, anyhow, that only a man who had an agreement with God could pass through the enemy's
lines, and move about in showers of bullets and grape-shot, as Napoleon did. They swept us
away like flies, but his head they never touched at all. I had a proof of that--I myself, in
particular--at Eylau, where the Emperor went up on a little hill to see how things were going.
I can remember, to this day, exactly how he looked as he took out his field-glass, watched
the battle for a minute, and finally said: "It's all right! Everything is going well." Then,
just as he was coming back, an ambitious chap in a plumed hat, who was always following him
around, and who bothered him, they said, even at his meals, thought he'd play smart by going
up on the very same hill; but he had hardly taken the Emperor's place when--batz!--away he
went, plume and all!

Now follow me closely, and tell me whether what you are going to hear was natural.

Napoleon, you know, had promised that he'd keep his agreement with God to himself. That's the
reason why his companions and even his particular friends--men like Duroc, Bessières, and Lannes,
who were strong as bars of steel, but whom he molded to suit his purposes--all fell, like nuts
from a shaken tree, while he himself was never even hurt.

But that's not the only proof that he was the child of God and was expressly created to be
the father of soldiers. Did anybody ever see him a lieutenant? Or a captain? Never! He was
commander-in-chief from the start. When he didn't look more than twenty-four years of age he
was already an old general--ever since the taking of Toulon, where he first began to show the
rest of them that they didn't know anything about the handling of cannon.

Well, soon after that, down comes this stripling to us as general-in-chief of the Army of Italy--an
army that hadn't any ammunition, or bread, or shoes, or coats; a wretched army--naked as a
worm. "Now, boys!" he said, "here we are, all together. I want you to get it fixed in your
heads that in fifteen days more you 're going to be conquerors. You're going to have new clothes,
good leggings, the best of shoes, and a warm overcoat for every man; but in order to get these
things you'll have to march to Milan, where they are." So we marched. We were only thirty thousand
bare-footed tramps, and we were going against eighty thousand crack German soldiers--fine,
well equipped men; but Napoleon, who was only Bonaparte then, breathed a spirit of--I don't
know what--into us, and on we marched, night and day. We hit the enemy at Montenotte, thrashed
'em at Rivoli, Lodi, Arcola, and Millesimo, and stuck to 'em wherever they went. A soldier
soon gets to like being a conqueror; and Napoleon wheeled around those German generals, and
pelted away at 'em, until they didn't know where to hide long enough to get a little rest.
With fifteen hundred Frenchmen, whom he made to appear a great host (that's a way he had),
he'd sometimes surround ten thousand men and gather 'em all in at a single scoop. Then we'd
take their cannon, their money, their ammunition, and everything they had that was worth carrying
away. As for the others, we chucked 'em into the water, walloped 'em on the mountains, snapped
'em up in the air, devoured 'em on the ground, and beat 'em everywhere. So at last our troops
were in fine feather--especially as Napoleon, who had a clever wit, made friends with the inhabitants
of the country by telling them that we had come to set them free; and then, of course, they
gave us quarters and took the best of care of us. And it was not only the men: the women took
care of us too, which showed their good judgment!

Well, it finally ended in this way: in Ventose, 1796,--which was the same time of year that
our March is now,--we were penned up in one corner of the marmot country: but at the end of
the first campaign, lo and behold! we were masters of Italy, just as Napoleon had predicted.
And in the month of March following--that is, in two campaigns, which we fought in a single
year--he brought us in sight of Vienna. It was just a clean sweep. We had eaten up three different
armies in succession, and had wiped out four Austrian generals; one of them--a white-haired
old chap--was burned alive at Mantua like a rat in a straw mattress. We had conquered peace,
and kings were begging, on their knees, for mercy. Could a man have done all that alone? Never!
He had the help of God; that's certain! He divided himself up like the five loaves of bread
in the Gospel; he planned battles at night and directed them in the daytime: he was seen by
the sentries going here and there at all hours, and he never ate or slept. When the soldiers
saw all these wonderful things, they adopted him as their father.

But the people at the head of the government over there in Paris, who were looking on, said
to themselves: "This schemer, who seems to have the watchword of Heaven, is quite capable of
laying his hands on France. We'd better turn him loose in Asia or America. Then maybe he'll
be satisfied for a while." So it was written that he should do just what Jesus Christ did--go
to Egypt. You see how in this he resembled the Son of God. But there's more to come.

He gathered together all his old fire-eaters--the fellows that he had put the spirit of the
Devil into--and said to them: "Boys! They've given us Egypt to chew on--to keep us quiet for
a while; but we'll swallow Egypt in one time and two movements--just as we did Italy; All you
private soldiers shall be princes, with lands of your own. Forward!"

"Forward, boys!" shouted the sergeants.

So we marched to Toulon, on our way to Egypt. As soon as the English heard of it, they sent
out all their ships of war to catch us; but when we embarked, Napoleon said to us: "The English
will never see us; and it is only proper for you to know now that your general has a star in
the sky which will henceforth guide and protect us."

As 't was said, so 't was done. On our way across the sea we took Malta (just as one would
pick an orange in passing) to quench Napoleon's thirst for victory; because he was a man who
wanted to be doing something all the time.

And so at last we came to Egypt; and then the orders were different. The Egyptians, you know,
are people who, from the beginning of the world, have had giants to rule over them, and armies
like innumerable ants. Their country is a land of genii and crocodiles, and of pyramids as
big as our mountains, where they put the bodies of their dead kings to keep them fresh--a thing
that seems to please them all around. Of course you can't deal with such people as you would
with others. So when we landed, the Little Corporal said to us: "Boys! The country that you
are going to conquer worships a lot of gods that must be respected. Frenchmen should keep on
good terms with everybody, and fight people without hurting their feelings. So let everything
alone at first, and by and by we'll get all there is."

Now there was a prediction among the Egyptians down there that Napoleon would come; and the
name they had for him was Kebir Bonaberdis, which means, in their lingo, "The Sultan strikes
fire." They were as much afraid of him as they were of the Devil; so the Grand Turk, Asia,
and Africa resorted to magic, and sent against us a demon named Mody [the Mahdi], who was supposed
to have come down from heaven on a white horse. This horse was incombustible to bullets, and
so was the Mody, and the two of 'em lived on weather and air. There are people who have seen
'em; but I haven't any reason, myself, to say positively that the things told about 'em were
true. Anyhow, they were the great powers in Arabia; and the Mamelukes wanted to make the Egyptian
soldiers think that the Mody could keep them from being killed in battle, and that he was an
angel sent down from heaven to fight Napoleon and get back Solomon's seal--a part of their
equipment which they pretended to believe our general had stolen. But we made 'em laugh on
the wrong side of their mouths, in spite of their Mody!

They thought Napoleon could command the genii, and that he had power to go from one place to
another in an instant, like a bird; and, indeed, it's a fact that he was everywhere. But how
did they know that he had an agreement with God? Was it natural that they should get such an
idea as that?

It so happened, finally, that he carried off one of their queens--a woman beautiful as the
sunshine. He tried, at first, to buy her, and offered to give for her all his treasure, and
a lot of diamonds as big as pigeons' eggs; but although the Mameluke to whom she particularly
belonged had several others, he wouldn't agree to the bargain; so Napoleon had to carry her
off. Of course, when things came to such a pass as that, they couldn't be settled without a
lot of fighting; and if there weren't blows enough to satisfy all, it wasn't anybody's fault.
We formed in battle line at Alexandria, at Gizeh, and in front of the Pyramids. We marched
in hot sunshine and through deep sand, where some got so bedazzled that they saw water which
they couldn't drink, and shade that made them sweat; but we generally chewed up the Mamelukes,
and all the rest gave in when they heard Napoleon's voice.

He took possession of Upper and Lower Egypt, Arabia, and the capitals of kingdoms that perished
long ago, where there were thousands of statues of all the evil things in creation, especially
lizards--a thundering big country, where one could get acres of land for as little as he pleased.

Well, while Napoleon was attending to his business inland, where he intended to do some splendid
things, the English, who were always trying to make us trouble, burned his fleet at Aboukir.
But our general, who had the respect of the East and the West, who had been called "my son"
by the Pope, and "my dear father" by the cousin of Mahomet, resolved to punish England, and
to capture the Indies, in payment for his lost fleet. He was just going to take us across the
Red Sea into Asia--a country where there were lots of diamonds, plenty of gold with which to
pay his soldiers, and palaces that could be used for etapes--when the Mody made an arrangement
with the Plague, and sent it down to put an end to our victories. Then it was, Halt, all! And
everybody marched off to that parade from which you don't come back on your feet. Dying soldiers
couldn't take Saint Jean d'Acre, although they forced an entrance three times with noble and
stubborn courage. The Plague was too strong for us; and it wasn't any use to say "Please don't!"
to the Plague. Everybody was sick except Napoleon. He looked fresh as a rose, and the whole
army saw him drinking in pestilence without being hurt a bit. How was that? Do you call that
natural?

Well, the Mamelukes, who knew that we were all in ambulances, thought they'd bar our way; but
they couldn't play that sort of game with Napoleon. He turned to his old fire-eaters--the fellows
with the toughest hides--and said: "Go clear the road for me." Junot, who was his devoted friend
and a number one soldier, took not more than a thousand men, and slashed right through the
army of the pasha which had had the impudence to get in our way. Then we went back to Cairo,
where we had our headquarters.

And now for another part of the story. While Napoleon was away France was letting herself be
ruined by those government scalawags in Paris, who were keeping back the soldiers' pay, withholding
their linen and their clothes, and even letting them starve. They wanted the soldiers to lay
down the law to the universe, and that's all they cared for. They were just a lot of idiots
jabbering for amusement instead of putting their own hands into the dough. So our armies were
beaten and we couldn't defend, our frontiers. THE MAN was no longer there. I say "the man"
because that's what they called him; but it was absurd to say that he was merely a man, when
he had a star of his own with all its belongings. It was the rest of us who were merely men.
At the battle of Aboukir, with a single division and with a loss of only three hundred men,
he whipped the great army of the Turks, and hustled more than half of them into the sea--r-r-rah--like
that! But it was his last thunderclap in Egypt; because when he heard, soon afterward, what
was happening in France, he made up his mind to go back there. "I am the savior of France,"
he said, "and I must go to her aid." The army didn't know what he intended to do. If they had
known, they would have kept him in Egypt by force and made him Emperor of the East.

When he had gone, we all felt very blue; because he had been the joy of our lives. He left
the command to Kléber--a great lout of a fellow who soon afterward lost the number of his mess.
An Egyptian assassinated him. They put the murderer to death by making him sit on a bayonet;
that's their way, down there, of guillotining a man. But he suffered so much that one of our
soldiers felt sorry for him and offered him his water-gourd. The criminal took a drink, and
then gave up the ghost with the greatest pleasure.

But we didn't waste much time over trifles like that.

Napoleon sailed from Egypt in a cockle-shell of a boat called Fortune. He passed right under
the noses of the English, who were blockading the coast with ships of the line, frigates, and
every sort of craft that could carry sail, and in the twinkling of an eye he was in France;
because he had the ability to cross the sea as if with a single stride. Was that natural? Bah!
The very minute he reached Fréjus, he had his foot, so to speak, in Paris. There, of course,
everybody worships him. But the first thing he does is to summon the government. "What have
you been doing with my children the soldiers?" he said to the lawyers. "You are nothing but
a lot of poll-parrots, who fool the people with your gabble, and feather your own nests at
the expense of France. It is not right; and I speak in the name of all who are dissatisfied."

They thought, at first, that they could get rid of him by talking him to death; but it didn't
work. He shut 'em up in the very barrack where they did their talking, and those who didn't
jump out of the windows he enrolled in his suite, where they soon became mute as fish and pliable
as a tobacco-pouch. This coup made him consul; and as he wasn't one to doubt the Supreme Being
who had kept good faith with him, he hastened to fulfil his own promise by restoring the churches
and reestablishing religion; whereupon the bells all rang out in his honor and in honor of
the good God.

Everybody then was satisfied: first, the priests, because they were protected from persecution;
second, the merchants, because they could do business without fearing the "we-grab-it-all"
of the law; and finally the nobles, because the people were forbidden to put them to death,
as they had formerly had the unfortunate habit of doing.

But Napoleon still had his enemies to clear away, and he was not a man to drop asleep over
his porringer. His eye took in the whole world--as if it were no bigger than a soldier's head.
The first thing he did was to turn up in Italy--as suddenly as if he had poked his head through
a window; and one look from him was enough. The Austrians were swallowed up at Marengo as gudgeons
are swallowed by a whale. Then the French VICTORY sang a song of triumph that all the world
could hear, and it was enough. "We won't play any more!" declared the Germans.

"Nor we either," said the others.

Sum total: Europe is cowed; England knuckles down; and there is universal peace, with all the
kings and people pretending to embrace one another.

It was then that Napoleon established the Legion of Honor; and a fine thing it was, too. In
a speech that he made before the whole army at Boulogne he said: "In France everybody is brave;
so the civilian who does a noble deed shall be the brother of the soldier, and they shall stand
together under the flag of honor." Then we who had been down in Egypt came home and found everything
changed. When Napoleon left us he was only a general; but in no time at all he had become Emperor.
France had given herself to him as a pretty girl gives herself to a lancer.

Well, when everything had been settled to everybody's satisfaction, there was a religious ceremony
such as had never before been seen under the canopy of heaven. The Pope and all his cardinals,
in their robes of scarlet and gold, came across the Alps to anoint him with holy oil, and he
was crowned Emperor, in the presence of the army and the people, with great applause and clapping
of hands.

But there is one thing that it would not be fair not to tell you; and that is about the RED
MAN. Then again, at Marengo, on the evening of the victory, the same Red Man appeared to him
a second time, and said: "You shall see the world at your feet: you shall be Emperor of France;
King of Italy; master of Holland; sovereign of Spain, Portugal, and the Illyrian provinces;
protector of Germany; savior of Poland; first eagle of the Legion of Honor--everything!"

This Red Man, you see, was his own idea; and was a sort of messenger whom he used, many people
said, as a means of communication with his star. I've never believed that, myself, but that
there was a Red Man is a real fact. Napoleon himself spoke of him, and said that he lived up
under the roof in the palace of the Tuileries, and that he often used to make his appearance
in times of trouble. On the evening of his coronation Napoleon saw him for the third time,
and they consulted together about a lot of things.

After that the Emperor went to Milan, where he was crowned King of Italy; and then began a
regular triumph for us soldiers. Every man who knew how to read and write became an officer;
it rained dukedoms; pensions were distributed with both hands; there were fortunes for the
general staff which didn't cost France a penny; and even common soldiers received annuities
with their crosses of the Legion of Honor--I get mine to this day. In short, the armies of
France were taken care of in a way that had never before been seen.

But the Emperor, who knew that he was the emperor not only of the soldiers but of all, remembered
the bourgeois, and built wonderful monuments for them, to suit their own taste, in places that
had been as bare before as the palm of your hand. Suppose you were coming from Spain, for example,
and going through France to Berlin. You would pass under sculptured triumphal arches on which
you'd see the common soldiers carved just as beautifully as the generals.

In two or three years, and without taxing you people at all, Napoleon filled his vaults with
gold; created bridges, palaces, roads, schools, festivals, laws, harbors, ships; and spent
millions and millions of money--so much, in fact, that if he'd taken the notion, they say,
he might have paved all France with five-franc pieces.

Finally, when he was comfortably seated on his throne, he was so thoroughly the master of everything
that Europe waited for his permission before it even dared to sneeze. Then, as he had four
brothers and three sisters, he said to us in familiar talk, as if in the order of the day:
"Boys! Is it right that the relatives of your Emperor should have to beg their bread? No! I
want them to shine, just as I do. A kingdom must be conquered, therefore, for every one of
them; so that France may be master of all; so that the soldiers of the Guard may make the world
tremble; so that France may spit wherever she likes; and so that all nations may say to her,--as
it is written on my coins,--'God protects you.'"

"All right!" says the army. "We'll fish up kingdoms for you with the bayonet."

We couldn't back out, you know; and if he had taken it into his head to conquer the moon, we
should have had to get ready, pack our knapsacks, and climb up. Fortunately, he didn't have
any such intention.

The kings, who were very comfortable on their thrones, naturally didn't want to get off to
make room for his relatives; so they had to be dragged off by the ears. Forward!  We marched
and marched, and everything began to shake again. Ah, how he did wear out men and shoes in
those days! He struck such tremendous blows with us that if we had been other than Frenchmen
we should all have been used up. But Frenchmen are born philosophers, and they know that a
little sooner or a little later they must die. So we used to die without a word, because we
had the pleasure of seeing the Emperor do this with the geographies. [Here the old soldier
nimbly drew a circle with his foot on the floor of the barn.]

"There!" he would say, "that shall be a kingdom!" And it was a kingdom. Ah, that was a great
time! Colonels became generals while you were looking at them; generals became marshals, and
marshals became kings. There's one of those kings still left, to remind Europe of that time;
but he is a Gascon, and has betrayed France in order to keep his crown. He doesn't blush for
the shame of it, either; because crowns, you understand, are made of gold! Finally, even sappers,
if they knew how to read, became nobles all the same. I myself have seen in Paris eleven kings
and a crowd of princes, surrounding Napoleon like rays of the sun. Every soldier had a chance
to see how a throne fitted him, if he was worthy of it, and when a corporal of the Guard passed
by he was an object of curiosity; because all had a share in the glory of the victories, which
were perfectly well known to everybody through the bulletins.

And what a lot of battles there were! Austerlitz, where the army maneuvered as if on parade;
Eylau, where the Russians were drowned in a lake as if Napoleon had blown them in with a single
puff; Wagram, where we fought three days without flinching. In short, there were as many battles
as there are saints in the calendar. And it was proved then that Napoleon had in his scabbard
the real sword of God. He felt regard for his soldiers, too, and treated them just as if they
were his children, always taking pains to find out if they were well supplied with shoes, linen,
overcoats, bread, and cartridges. But he kept up his dignity as sovereign all the same; because
to reign was his business. However, that didn't make any difference. A sergeant, or even a
common soldier, could say to him "Emperor," just as you sometimes say "my dear fellow" to me.
He was one that you could argue with, if necessary; he slept on the snow with the rest of us;
and, in short, he appeared almost like any other man. But when the grape-shot were kicking
up the dust at his very feet, I have seen him going about coolly,--no more disturbed by them
than you are at this minute,--looking through his field-glass now and then, and attending all
the time to his business. Of course that made the rest of us as calm and serene as John the
Baptist. I don't know how he managed it, but when he spoke to us, his words put fire into our
hearts; and in order to show him that we really were his children, and not the kind of men
to shrink from danger, we used to march right up to great blackguards of cannon which bellowed
and vomited balls without so much as saying "Look out!"

Well, when he had settled all his folks comfortably, the Empress Josephine--who was a good
woman all the same--was so fixed that she couldn't give him any family, and he had to leave
her. He loved her quite a little, too; but for reasons of state he had to have children. When
the kings of Europe heard of this trouble, they came to blows over the question who should
give him a wife. He finally married, they told us, an Austrian woman. She was a daughter of
Caesar's--a man of ancient times who is much talked about, not only in our country, where they
say he made everything, but in Europe. It's true, anyhow, that I have myself been on the Danube,
and have seen there the remains of a bridge that this man Caesar built. It appears that he
was a relative of Napoleon's in Rome, and that's why the Emperor had a right to take the inheritance
there for his son.

Well, after his marriage, when there was a holiday for the whole world, and when he let the
people off ten years' taxes (which were collected all the same, because the tax-gatherers didn't
pay any attention to what he said), his wife had a little boy who was King of Rome. That was
a thing which had never been seen on earth before--a child born king while his father was still
living. A balloon was sent up in Paris to carry the news to Rome, and it made the whole distance
in a single day. Now will any of you tell me that that was natural? Never! It had been so written
on high.

Well, next comes the Emperor of Russia. He had once been Napoleon's friend; but he got angry
because our Emperor didn't marry a Russian woman. So he backs up our enemies the English. Napoleon
had long intended to pay his respects to those English ducks in their own nests, but something
had always happened to prevent, and it was now high time to make an end of them. So he finally
got angry himself, and said to us: "Soldiers! You have been masters of all the capitals of
Europe except Moscow, which is the ally of England. In order to conquer London, as well as
the Indies, which belong to London, I find it necessary to go to Moscow."

Well, there assembled then the greatest army that ever tramped in gaiters over the world; and
the Emperor had them so curiously well lined up that he reviewed a million men in a single day.

"Hourra!" shout the Russians. And there they were--those animals of Cossacks who are forever
running away, and the whole Russian nation, all complete! It was country against country--a
general mix-up, where everybody had to look out for himself. As the Red Man had said to Napoleon,
"It's Asia against Europe."

"All right!" replied the Emperor, "I'll take care." And then came fawning on Napoleon all the
kings of Europe,--Austria, Prussia, Bavaria, Saxony, Poland, Italy,--all flattering us and
going along with us. It was splendid! The French eagles never cooed as they did on parade then,
when they were held high above all the flags of Europe. The Poles couldn't contain themselves
for joy, because the Emperor intended to set them up again as a nation--and for that reason
the French and the Poles have been like brothers ever since.

"Russia shall be ours!" cried the army.

We crossed the frontier,--the whole lot of us,--and marched, and marched, and marched. No Russians!
At last we found the rascals, camping on the bank of the Moscow River. That's where I got my
cross; and I take leave to say that it was the damnedest of battles! Napoleon himself was worried,
because the Red Man had appeared again and had said to him, "My son, you are going too fast;
you will run short of men, and your friends will betray you." Thereupon the Emperor proposed
peace; but before the treaty was signed he said to us, "Let's give those Russians a drubbing!"

"All right!" said the army.

"Forward!" shout the sergeants.

My clothes were going to pieces and my shoes were all worn out from tramping over the bad roads
out there, but I said to myself, "Never mind; since this is the last of the rumpus, I'll make
'em give me a bellyful!"

We were drawn up near the edge of the great ravine--in the front seats! The signal was given,
and seven hundred pieces of artillery began a conversation that was enough to bring the blood
from your ears. Well, to do justice to one's enemies, I must admit that the Russians let themselves
be killed like Frenchmen. They wouldn't give way, and we couldn't advance.

"Forward!" shouted our officers. "Here comes the Emperor!" And there he was, passing at a gallop,
and motioning to us that it was very important to capture the redoubt. He put new life into
us, and on we ran. I was the first to reach the ravine. Ah! Mon Dieu! How the colonels are
falling, and the lieutenants, and the soldiers! But never mind! There'll be all the more shoes
for those who haven't any, and epaulets for the ambitious fellows who know how to read.

At last the cry of "Victory!" rang all along the line; but--would you believe it?--there were
twenty-five thousand Frenchmen lying on the ground! A trifle, eh? Well, such a thing had never
been seen before. It was a regular harvest field after the reaping; only instead of stalks
of grain there were bodies of men. That sobered the rest of us. But the Emperor soon came along,
and when we formed a circle around him, he praised us and cheered us up (he could be very amiable
when he liked), and made us feel quite contented, even although we were as hungry as wolves.
Then he distributed crosses of honor among us, saluted the dead, and said, "On to Moscow!"

"All right! To Moscow!" replied the army.

And then what did the Russians do but burn their city! It made a six-mile bonfire which blazed
for two days. The buildings fell like slates, and there was a rain of melted iron and lead
which was simply horrible! Indeed, that fire was the lightning from the dark cloud of our misfortunes.
The Emperor said: "There's enough of this. If we stay here, none of my soldiers will ever get
out." But we waited a little to cool off and to refresh our carcasses; because we were really
played out. We carried away a golden cross that was on the Kremlin, and every soldier had a
small fortune.

On our way back, winter came upon us, a month earlier than usual,--a thing that those stupid
scientific men have never properly explained,--and the cold caught us. Then there was no more
army; do you understand? No army, no generals, no sergeants even! After that it was a reign
of misery and hunger--a reign where we were all equal. We thought of nothing except of seeing
France again. Nobody stooped to pick up his gun, or his money, if he happened to drop them;
and every one went straight on, arms at will, caring nothing for glory. The weather was so
bad that Napoleon could no longer see his star--the sky was hidden. Poor man! It made him sick
at heart to see his eagles flying away from victory. It was a crushing blow to him.

Well, then came the Beresina. And now, my friends, I may say to you, on my honor and by everything
sacred, that never--no, never since man lived on earth--has there been such a mixed up hodgepodge
of army, wagons, and artillery, in the midst of such snows, and under such a pitiless sky!
It was so cold that if you touched the barrel of your gun you burned your hand.

