Alexander had put up two little marble Tablets over the fireplace, commemorating his visit
to the Imperial residence, on which something good and pointed might have been inscribed; as
they are, it is merely stated that Alexander placed them on, and that Mrs. Von Tets Von Groudam
stood by, delighted to see him so employed. We returned to Amsterdam by 3 o'clock and left
it at 4 for Haarlem. In Protestant countries Cathedrals are not always open; we found that
at Haarlem open and a numerous congregation listening to a very respectable, venerable-looking
preacher, whose voice and manner, style and action approached perfection. His eloquence, however,
seemed to be in vain, for I observed many sleepers; and what had an odd effect, though customary
in their country, the men with their hats on; they take them off, I believe, during prayers,
but put them down during the sermon; we ascended the tower and enjoyed as extensive a view
as heart could wish. The sea of Haarlem is an immense lake separated from the Gulf by a flood
gate and narrow dam. The French had a block house and batteries here. In truth, Holland does
not require above 20 guns to keep out all the enemies in the world. Different, indeed, are
the Dutch from the French in the facility and liberality of access to their curiosities. It
required some eloquence and more money to induce the key-keeper to let us go up; and on asking
whether the Organ was to play, he assured us it was not, but that if we wished it, the performer
would sound the notes for 16 shillings; this was a gross imposition to which we were little
inclined to submit; but luckily, as we were coming down, we heard it opening its great bellows
and re-echoing through the body of the church. We almost broke our necks in running downstairs,
and leaving the Dutch guide to take care of himself, we found our way into the Organ loft,
to the visible annoyance of the performer, who, seeing we were strangers, thought himself sure
of his eight florins, but his duty and the Church service compelled him to go on, and he shook
his head and growled in vain at our guide, who at this time appeared, intimating that he should
take us away, as having no business there, but in vain. I heard the Organ, counted the 68 stops,
examined at my leisure the stupendous instrument, while he was under the necessity of continuing
his involuntary voluntary, till my curiosity was satisfied. We took up our residence at an
Hotel in the Wood, so-called from being the place of promenade and site of the new palace,
but ci-devant residence of Mrs. Hope, and, in fact, from being also a respectable wood of tolerably
sized trees.

By the best chance in the world here, too, we fell in with a fête on the river. Some great
Burgomaster had married himself, and all the world of Haarlem came forth in boats, decorated
with colors, and bands of music in procession up the river to pass in review before the Princess
of Orange, an elderly-looking woman. She sat in the window of a summer house overlooking the
river, and the festive procession assembled before her. It was a lovely evening, and nothing
could be more gay and animating than the scene. We this morning at 6 quitted Haarlem in the
boat in which I am now writing as comfortably as in my own room, the motion scarcely perceptible,
about 5 miles an hour; by good luck few passengers, and those above looking at a man who is
at this incessant Dutch employment of painting. The boat is as clean as a china dish, but possibly
it may not have been painted since last week. Edward has just daubed his hand by looking out
of the window. I am rather puzzled in getting on here. Very little French is spoken; among
the common people none, and we converse by signs.

...Their money, too, is puzzling beyond measure. My stock consists of 5 franc pieces (French),
upon which, exclusive of their not always understanding what they are, there is a discount;
this, of course, adds to the confusion, and now I despair of understanding the infinite variety
of square, hexagon, round coins of copper and silver and base metal which pass through my hands.

We passed two hours at Leyden as actively employed as a Foxhunter. We found a man who spoke
French, told him our wishes, gave him a list of what was to be seen in the town, and then desired
him to start, following him on the full trot up and down churches, colleges, Townhalls, &c.
These towns are so much alike, that having seen one the interest is considerably lessened.
Leyden, however, has the honour of possessing one of the finest streets in Holland; though
capable of accommodating 65,000 souls, there are not more than 20,000, which gives it a melancholy
appearance. In one part there is an area of about 3 or 4 Cheshire acres planted with trees
and divided with walls, which in 1807 was covered, like the rest of the town, with good houses,
but it happened that a barge full of gunpowder passing through the canal, blew up, killed 200
people, including a very clever Professor Lugai, and destroyed all the houses. It was a sad
catastrophe, to be sure; but now, as it is all over, and all the good people's mourning laid
aside, I think the Town may be congratulated as a gainer. I could fill up my letter with the
anatomical preparations of the celebrated Albinus; but though I am very partial to these sights,
I doubt whether you would be amused by a description of dried men, with their hearts, lungs,
and brains suspended in different bottles. The town is full of booksellers' shops, in which
capital Classics might be procured and divers others old books. The windows were also well
filled with new works translated into Dutch; few, I think, original; amongst others, I saw
"Ida of Athens!"[93] ...

It is not easy to trace the sieges of Philip 2nd in these towns, as the fortifications are
most of them extinct, fortresses of more modern construction being now the keys of the country.
Neat villas and gardens by the canal side marked our approach to the seat of government--and
a very first-rate Town the Hague is, though I cannot conceive how the people escape agues and
colds in Autumn. Stagnant canals and pools, with all circulation of air checked by rows of
trees, cannot be healthy. Unfortunately for us, Lord Clancarty is at Bruxelles with the Prince
of Orange. The Hague appears, from what I have seen, to be a better town for permanent residence
than Bruxelles or Antwerp. The houses are all good, which implies a superior quality of inhabitants.
In the evening we took a drive to Scheveningen, a fishing village about 2 or 3 miles distant,
through a delightful avenue. It is one of the fashionable resorts of the town, and is absolute
perfection on a hot day, though pregnant with damp and dew in the evening. I told you of dog
carts at Bruxelles, but here seems to be the region of despotic sway of the poor beasts. I
believe that I am not wrong in stating that nearly all the fish is carried by them from Scheveningen
to the Hague; and the weight they draw is surprising. We passed many canine equipages; in one
sat a fisherman and his wife drawn by three dogs not much bigger than Pompey--he with his pipe
in his mouth, she with an enormous Umbrella Hat, as grave as Pluto and Proserpine. I saw several
nice goat gigs; moreover, I am determined to have one for Owen....

...It is quite extraordinary with what excessive silence and gravity these people carry on
their affairs. On returning from Scheveningen at a good round trot, we came in contact with
another carriage. Luckily no other accident happened than breaking their traces and grinding
their wheels. But though disabled by our driver, not a syllable of complaint or commiseration
was uttered by one party or the other. Our driver proceeded, leaving them to take care of themselves.
I observed, too, that in manœuvering the Vessel in passing the Gulf yesterday, where some tacks
were necessary, all was performed in perfect silence; no halloo-ing--a nod or a puff was alone
sufficient....

And so are we coming to the close of our Tour--our next stage will be Rotterdam, from whence
I shall bear my own dispatches.... In the course of my life this last month will bear a conspicuous
place from the interesting and delightful scenes it has afforded me. I must confess I left
England with some waverings and misgivings; the accounts of others led me to expect that disappointments,
difficulties, and great expense would be the inevitable accompaniments of my course. But in
no instance have I been disappointed, the difficulties too trifling to deserve the name, the
expense nothing compared with the profits derived, and I have seen enough of men and manners,
of things animate and inanimate, to make me quite at home in some of the great scenes which
have just been performed....

CHAPTER VI

THE WATERLOO YEAR

Lord Sheffield's forebodings--Talleyrand and the Senate--Vagabond Royalty--Mr. North and Napoleon--The
rout of the Bourbon Government.

1814-1816.

The two years which intervened between Edward Stanley's second and third visits to France saw
the Empire regained and lost by Napoleon, and the French Crown lost and regained by Louis XVIII.

In spite of the rose-coloured description of the comforts and pleasures of his journey with
which the correspondence of 1814 closes, neither the Rector nor his brother found it possible
to travel on the Continent in 1815, which Lady Maria had foretold would be "a much more favourable
time."

Such hopes must soon have been dashed by the proceedings of the Congress of Vienna, which,
as was said, "danse mais n'avance pas," and gloomy forebodings are shewn in two letters from
Lord Sheffield to his son-in-law, which were received at Alderley in the autumn of 1814 and
the spring of 1815.

The first gives Lord Sheffield's view of the situation, and the second describes Napoleon's
own remarks upon it to Lord Sheffield's nephew, Mr. Frederick Douglas.

Lord Sheffield to Sir John Stanley.

SHEFFIELD PLACE, October 30, 1814.

It is time I should provoke some symptom of your existence. I have no letters from Frederick
North,[94] but I can acquaint you that we had himself here, which is still better, and that
he has been infinitely entertaining, after three or four months' tour on the Continent, from
whence he arrived about three weeks ago, and where he proposes to return next week, to pass
the winter at Nice with the Glenbervies and Lady Charlotte Lindsay, who are gone there, and,
I might add, with many other English families. I begin to think I shall have more acquaintances
on the Continent than in England; the migration there is beyond calculation.

The present is an anxious period. Perhaps there isn't in the History of the world a more complete
instance of political imbecility than was exhibited in the late Peace at Paris, especially
in the Allies not availing themselves of the very extraordinary opportunity of securing the
tranquillity of Europe for a long time.

I conceive that the most selfish ambition will not have been more hurtful than liberality run
mad. And as I am not without apprehension of that fanaticism, which for some time has interfered
even with Parliament, and to which there has been too much concession, I incline to the opinion
that enthusiasm, as fanaticism, is generally more hurtful to society than scepticism. The fanatic
measures are evidently systematic and combined.

Everybody now looks eagerly towards the Congress of Vienna. Talleyrand displays the cloven
foot, by refusing to recognise the junction of all the Netherlands. However, the Bourbons,
France, and all Europe may be thankful to Talleyrand.

You have often heard of Barthélemy.[95] His brother, a banker at Paris, first moved in the
Senate the déchéance of the Buonaparte family. Alexander was treating respecting a Regency.
The King of Prussia did not attempt to take a lead, but was well disposed to put down the dynasty.
The Emperor of Austria had always declared that he would treat with Buonaparte for Peace, under
restrictions, still co-operating with the Allies.

While matters were in this state Talleyrand took the opportunity of sending a message to the
Senate, saying that the family was deposed, and by this step decided the business.

Buonaparte never showed a disposition to treat and to agree to terms; but when he had seemingly
agreed, he denied or broke off the next day. The failure or desertion of the Marshals completed
his overthrow.

It is surprising that he did not attempt to join Augereau's Army,[96] and retire into Italy,
where he had forty thousand very good troops. At all events we must rest upon the pinnacle
of glory and honour, although we have not secured a permanency of them. By premature concession
we have yielded the means of securing the advantages we had gained.

The affair at Lake Champlain[97] has been most unlucky, as it will encourage the Yankies, under
the present inveterate and execrable Government, to persevere in a ruinous warfare--ruinous
to the American States, and galling to this country, liable to be distracted by the efforts
of an interested and mischievous faction, which, through lack of firmness in Government, often
paralyses measures of the utmost consequence.

I have seen several letters from Madrid, and I have one from thence now before me of the 3rd inst.

A degree of infatuation prevails there which you could hardly conceive possible. The account
comes from a very respectable and rational quarter. The most respectable characters are most
violently persecuted, and the persons arraigned are confined in dungeons, no communication
permitted; and persons convicted of the most atrocious acts are not even in disgrace.

While officers and soldiers invalided by wounds are starving, the King[98] is profuse to persons
of no merit, and has given a pension of 1,000 dollars to a young lady who sang before him, &c., &c.

The Spanish Funds, which on the King's arrival were at 85, are now at 50. The Revenue is less
than 20 millions of Dollars, the expenditure nearly 50.

Spain is likely to be in as bad a state as ever, excepting the presence of a French Army; consequently
I conceive their Transatlantic Dominions will be lost to them.

Nothing, however, could be more favourable to our Commerce than their emancipation. Such an
event, and a proper Boundary between us and the American States, would be the most favourable
result of the war to this country.

There is an uncommonly good Pamphlet published on this subject entitled "A completed View of
the points to be discussed in treating with the American States." I cannot do less than admire
it, because it seems taken from my shop, or at least it adopts all the principles, with a considerable
amelioration, by taking the Line of Mountains into the Lakes, and all the Lakes within our
Boundary.

I am very much entertained with an Anecdote in a letter of the 8th inst. now before me, from
Switzerland, which states that the Princess of Wales dined a few days before with the Empress
Maria Louisa and the Archduchess Constantine,[99] at Berne, and after dinner the Empress and
Princess sang Duets, and the Archduchess accompanied them. Two years ago nobody would have
believed such an event possible.

All this vagabond Royalty is found extremely troublesome by travellers, filling up all the
beds, and carrying away all the horses. The above dinner party reminds me of Candide meeting
at the Table d'Hôte during the Carnival at Venice, with two ex-emperors, and a few ex-kings.

