No. 373. "There is a Flower that bloometh." The Mayor of AVON, as he appeared 'avon his likeness
(A 1) taken by PHIL R. MORRIS, A.

No. 412. "Hush a bye, Bibby!" Capital picture, speaks for itself. "I know that man, he comes
from--Liverpool." Brought here by LUKE FILDES, R.A.

No. 440. "Poppylar Error." Old Lady (loq.). "Oh, dear! I've eaten one o' them nasty stuck-up
poppies, and I do feel so--Oh! I feel my colour is gradually PALIN (W.M.)."

]

No. 502. "What, no Soap!" She may appear a trifle cracky, but no one can say that this picture
represents her as having gone "clean mad." ANNA BILINSKA.

No. 553. Margate Sands in Ancient Times. Cruel conduct of an Ancient Warrior towards a young
lady who refused to bathe in the sea. Full of life by E.M. HALE (and Hearty).

No. 575. "Poor Thing!" Touching picture of ideal patient in Æsthetic Idiot Asylum. LUCIEN DAVIS.

No. 636. "A Clever Examiner drawing him out." [N.B.--This ought to have been exhibited at A.
TOOTH's Exhibition.] RALPH HEDLEY.

No. 686. Upper part of Augustus Manns, Esq. The Artist has, of course, chosen the better part.
"MANNS wants but little here below," but he doesn't get anything at all, being cut off, so
to speak, in his prime about the second shirt-button. Exactly like him as he was taken before
the Artist at "Pettie Sessions."

No. 1041. "Every Dog must have his Dose; or, King Charles's Martyrdom." FRED HALL.

SCULPTURE.--The descriptions in the Guide are too painful. We prefer not, to give any names,
but here are specimens:--"Mr. So-and-so, to be executed in bronze"; "The late Thingummy--bust!"
These will suffice. Then we have No. 1997. "All Three going to Bath" by GEORGE FRAMPTON; and
last, but not by any means least, a very good likeness of our old friend J.C. HORSLEY, R.A.,
and while we think of it, we'll treat him as a cabman and "take his number," which it's 1941,
done by JOHN ADAMS-ACTON, and so, with this piece of sculpture, we conclude our pick of the
Pictures with this display of fireworks; that is, with one good bust up! Plaudite et valete!

       *       *       *       *       *

ARS LONGA.

  Talking "ART" is so "smart" in the first week of May,
  That is "ART," which you start with a thundering A.
  Simple "art" must depart; that's an obsolete way.
  Some think "art" would impart all the work of to-day.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

RECKONING WITHOUT THEIR HOST.

Mr. P.C. BULL, loquitur:--

  Humph! There you go, suspicious lurkers,
    From lands less free! I grudge you room
  Among my hosts of honest workers.
    Had I the settling of your doom,
  Your shrift were short, and brief your stay.
  As 'tis, I'll watch you on your way.

  A Land of Liberty! Precisely.
    And curs of that advantage take.
  But, if you want my tip concisely,--
    We hate the wolf and loathe the snake:
  And as you seem a blend of both,
  To crush you I'd be little loth.

  Freedom we love, and, to secure it,
    Take rough and smooth with constant mind.
  Espionage? We ill endure it,
    But Liberty need not be blind.
  Sorrow's asylum is our isle;
  But we'd not harbour ruffians vile.

  To flout that isle foes are not chary,
    When of its shelter not in need;
  But, when in search of sanctuary,
    They fly thereto with wondrous speed.
  Asylum? Ay! But learn--in time--
  'Tis no Alsatia for foul crime.

  Foes dub me sinister, satanic,
    A friend of Nihilists and knaves;
  Because I will not let mere panic
    Rob me of sympathy with slaves,
  And hatred of oppressors. Fudge!
  Their railings will not make me budge.

  I've taken up my stand for freedom,
    I'll jackal to no autocrat;
  But rogues with hands as red as Edom,
    Nihilist snake, Anarchist rat,
  I'd crush, and crime's curst league determine.
  I have no sympathy with vermin.

  Doors open, welcome hospitable
    For all, unchallenged, is my style;
  But trust not to the fatuous fable
    That Caliban's free of my isle
  With prosperous Prospero's free consent.
  Such lies mad autocrats invent.

  Such for some centuries they've been telling,
    Crime, like an asp, I'd gladly crush
  Upon the threshold of my dwelling,
    But shall not join a purblind rush
  Of panic-stricken fools to play
  The oppressor's game, for the spy's pay!

  But you, foul, furtive desperadoes,
    Who, frightened now by those you'd fright,
  Would fain slink off among the shadows,
    To plot out further deeds of night,
  Our isle's immunity you boast!--
  You're reckoning without your host.

  I'll keep my eye on you; my Juries
    I think you'll find it hard to scare;
  We worship no Anarchic furies,
    For menace are not wont to care,
  Here red-caught Crime in vain advances
  "Extenuating Circumstances!"

       *       *       *       *       *

COUPLET BY A CYNIC.

(After reading certain Press Comments on the Picture Show.)

  Philistine Art may stand all critic shocks
  Whilst it gives Private Views--of Pretty Frocks!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORLD ON WHEELS.

MR. STEVENS, the American gentleman who rode round the world on a bicycle, says, "The bicycle
is now recognised as a new social force." Possibly. But certain writers to the Times on "The
Tyranny of the Road," seem to prove that it is also a new anti-social force, when it frightens
horses and upsets pedestrians. Adapting an old proverb, we may say, "Set a cad on a cycle and
he'll ride"--well, all over the road, and likely enough over old ladies into the bargain. Whilst
welcoming the latest locomotive development, we must not allow the "new social force" to develop
into a new social despotism. To put it pointedly:--

  We welcome these new steeds of steel,
    (In spite of whistles and of "squealers,")
  But cannot have the common weal
    Too much disturbed by common "Wheelers"!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROYAL ACADEMY BANQUET.--After the Presidential orations, the success of the evening was
Professor BUTCHER's speech. His audience were delighted at being thus "butchered to make" an
artistic "holiday." Prince ARTHUR BALFOUR expressed his regret that "the House of Commons did
not possess a Hanging Committee." Hasn't it? Don't we now and again hear of a Member being
"suspended" for some considerable time? On such occasions, the whole House is a Hanging Committee.
There was one notable omission, and yet for days the air had been charged with the all-absorbing
topic. "Odd!" murmured a noble Duke to himself, as, meditating many things, he stood by the
much-sounding soda-water, "Odd! a lot of speeches; and yet,--not a word about Orme!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE YOUNG GIRL'S COMPANION.

BY MRS. PAYLEY.

III.--THE CHOICE OF A POSE.

All young girls should have definite ideas of the impression which they wish to create. The
natural girl is always either impolite or impolitic. I am quite willing to allow that a girl
who appears artificial is equally detestable. To be unnatural, and to appear natural, is the
end at which the young girl should aim. Much, then, will depend on the choice of a pose. It
should be suitable; there should be something in your appearance and abilities to support the
illusion. I once knew a fat girl, with red hair (the wrong red), & good appetite, and chilblains
on her fingers; she adopted the romantic pose, and made herself ridiculous; of course, she
was quite unable to look the part. If she had done the Capital Housekeeper, or the Cheerfully
Philanthropic, she might have married a middle-aged Rector. She threw away her chances by choosing
an unsuitable pose. At the same time the reasons for your choice should never be obvious. There
was another case, which amused me slightly--a dark girl, with fine eyes. She was originally
intended to be a beauty, but she had some accident in her childhood that had crippled her.
She had to walk with a stick, and her back was bent. She posed as a man-hater. The part suited
her well enough, for she had rather a pretty wit. "But," I said to her, "it is too plainly
a case of the fox and the grapes; you hate men because you are a cripple, and can never get
a man to love you." She did not take this friendly hint at all nicely; in fact, since then
she has never spoken to me again; but what I said to her was quite true. She was right in deciding
that she had nothing to do with love; if you ever have to buy yourself a wooden leg, you may
as well get a wooden heart at the same time. But her pose was too obvious--ridiculously obvious.
She would have done better with something in the way of a religious enthusiasm--something very
mystical. It would have been impressive.

In the matter of dress a girl can do very much towards supporting her pose; but she must have
the intuitions and perceptions of an artist.

The child-like type requires great care, for the young girl in London is not naturally child-like.
There should be a suggestion of untidiness about the hair; the dress should be simple, loose
and sashed; nurse a kitten with a blue ribbon round its neck; say that you like chocolate-creams;
open your eyes very wide, and suck the tip of one finger occasionally. Let your manner generally
vary between the pensive and the mischievous; always ask for explanations, especially of things
which cannot possibly be explained in public. Do not attempt this pose unless your figure is
mignon and your complexion pink. Do not be too realistic; never be sticky or dirty--men do
not care for it.

A capital pose for a girl with dark lines under the eyes, is that of "the girl-with-a-past."
These lines, which are mostly the result of liver, are commonly accepted as evidence of soul.
The dress should be sombre, trailing, and rather distraught: there is a way of arranging a
fichu which of itself suggests that the heart beneath it is blighted. If you happen to possess
a few ornaments which are not too expensive, distribute them among your girl-friends; say,
in a repressed voice, that you do not care for such things any more. Let it be known that there
is one day in the year which you prefer to spend in complete solitude. Have a special affection
for one flower; occasionally allow your emotions to master you when you hear music. The hair-ornament
belongs exclusively to the lower middle-classes, but wear one article of jewellery, a souvenir,
which either never opens or never comes off. Smile sometimes, of course; but be careful to
smile unnaturally. On all festive occasions divide your time between your bedroom and the churchyard.

Both these types demand some personal attractions; if you have no personal attractions, you
must fall back upon one of the philanthropical types. The plainer you are, the more rigid will
be your philanthropy. Your object will be to disseminate in the homes of the poor some of the
luxuries of the rich; and, on returning, to disseminate in the homes of the rich some of the
diseases of the poor. Everything about you must be flat; your hats, hair and heels must be
flat; your denials must be particularly flat. Always take your meals in your jacket and a hurry,
never with the rest of your family; never have time to eat enough, but always have time to
brag about it.

I cannot understand why any girl should object to the assumption of a pose; and yet a girl
told me the other day that she preferred to be what she seemed to be. She was an exceptional
case; I disbelieved in her protestations that she was perfectly natural, and managed to get
some opportunities for observation when she did not know that she was observed. I must own
that she was quite truthful; she also managed to get married--suburban happiness and no position--but,
as I said, she was exceptional. Personally, I feel sure that I should never have been married
if I had seemed to be what I really was. I cannot understand this desire to be natural--it
is so affected.

My correspondence this week is not very interesting. In spite of my disclaimer last week, I
have been asked several questions which are not connected with Sentiment and Propriety. "BELLADONNA"
asks my advice on rather a delicate case; she is almost engaged to a man, A., and her greatest
friend is a girl, B. Happening, the other day, to open B.'s Diary by mistake for her own, she
discovered that B. is also very much in love with A. What is "BELLADONNA" to do? I think the
most honourable course would be to report in her own Diary a statement by A. that he loathes
B., and then leave the Diary where B. might mistake it for her own. This is checkmate for B.,
because she cannot do anything nasty without thereby implying that she has read "BELLADONNA's"
Diary.

       *       *       *       *       *

HAMLET; OR, KEEPING IT DARK.

SCENE I.--At the Haymarket.--Darkness visible. Out of it come Voices.

First Voice (probably on stage). "Who's there?"

Second V. (probably in auditorium). I can't see. Is it TREE?

Third V. "Nay, answer me: stand and unfold yourself."

Fourth V. I wish I could unfold the seat to let people pass.

Third V. "You come most carefully upon your hour."

Fourth V. Why on earth can't people be more punctual?

First V. "'Tis now struck twelve."

Fourth V. About a dozen people have hit my head scrambling past in the dark.

Third V. "For this relief much thanks."

Fourth V. They seem to have got in at last.

Third V. "'Tis bitter cold."

Fifth V. Oh, EDWIN, dear, I do wish they'd send away the ghost, and turn up the lights.

Third V. "Not a mouse stirring." [Crash.

Sixth V. There goes my opera-glass! Deuce of a job to find it.

Third V. "Stand, ho!"

Seventh V. Bless my soul, Ma'am, are you aware that you're standing on my foot?

Third V. "BERNARDO has my place."

Sixth V. Here's someone taken my seat!

First V. "What, is HORATIO there?"

Eighth V. Hullo, dear boy, how are you? Couldn't see you--but now the light's a bit up--(&c., &c.).

       *       *       *       *       *

A CRITERION OF MORALS.--Astutely doing "The Puff Preliminary" in a letter to the papers before
the production of The Fringe of Society (i.e., Le Demi-monde freely adapted), Mr. CHARLES WYNDHAM
observes that "there is no such class, in any recognisable degree, as the demi-monde in England."
"Recognisable" is good, very good, it saves the situation, as of course the demi-monde is not,
on any account, to be recognised. Cheery CHARLES evidently belongs to that half of the world
which never knows what the other half is doing. If The Fringe, as it at first went in to the
Licenser, had to be trimmed, CHARLES our Friend might have announced his latest version as
re-"adapted from the Fringe."

       *       *       *       *       *

"AILING AND CONVALESCENT,"--ORME. [No others count.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S AGRICULTURAL NOVEL.

BO AND THE BLACKSHEEP.

A STORY OF THE SEX.

    (By THOMAS OF WESSEX, Author of "Guess how a Murder feels,"
    "The Cornet Minor," "The Horse that Cast a Shoe," "One in
    a Turret," "The Foot of Ethel hurt her," "The Flight of the
    Bivalve," "Hard on the Gadding Crowd," "A Lay o' Deceivers,"
    &c.)

    ["I am going to give you," writes the Author of this book,
    "one of my powerful and fascinating stories of life in modern
    Wessex. It is well known, of course, that although I often
    write agricultural novels, I invariably call a spade a spade,
    and not an agricultural implement. Thus I am led to speak in
    plain language of women, their misdoings, and their undoings.
    Unstrained dialect is a speciality. If you want to know the
    extent of Wessex, consult histories of the Heptarchy with
    maps."]

CHAPTER I.

In our beautiful Blackmoor or Blakemore Vale, not far from the point where the Melchester Road
turns sharply towards Icenhurst on its way to Wintoncester, having on one side the hamlet of
Batton, on the other the larger town of Casterbridge, stands the farmhouse wherewith in this
narrative we have to deal. There for generations had dwelt the rustic family of the PEEPS,
handing down from father to son a well-stocked cow-shed and a tradition of rural virtues which
yet excluded not an overgreat affection on the male side for the home-brewed ale and the homemade
language in which, as is known, the Wessex peasantry delights. On this winter morning the smoke
rose thinly into the still atmosphere, and faded there as though ashamed of bringing a touch
of Thermidorean warmth into a degree of temperature not far removed from the zero-mark of the
local Fahrenheit. Within, a fire of good Wessex logs crackled cheerily upon the hearth. Old
ABRAHAM PEEP sat on one side of the fireplace, his figure yet telling a tale of former vigour.
On the other sat POLLY, his wife, an aimless, neutral, slatternly peasant woman, such as in
these parts a man may find with the profusion of Wessex blackberries. An empty chair between
them spoke with all an empty chair's eloquence of an absent inmate. A butter-churn stood in
a corner next to an ancient clock that had ticked away the mortality of many a past and gone PEEP.

CHAPTER II.

"Where be BONDUCA?" said ABRAHAM, shifting his body upon his chair so as to bring his wife's
faded tints better into view. "Like enough she's met in with that slack-twisted 'hor's bird
of a feller, TOM TATTERS. And she'll let the sheep draggle round the hills. My soul, but I'd
like to baste 'en for a poor slammick of a chap."

Mrs. PEEP smiled feebly. She had had her troubles. Like other realities, they took on themselves
a metaphysical mantle of infallibility, sinking to minor cerebral phenomena for quiet contemplation.
She had no notion how they did this. And, it must be added, that they might, had they felt
so disposed, have stood as pressing concretions which chafe body and soul--a most disagreeable
state of things, peculiar to the miserably passive existence of a Wessex peasant woman.

"BONDUCA went early," she said, adding, with a weak irrelevance. "She mid 'a' had her pick
to-day. A mampus o' men have bin after her--fourteen of 'em, all the best lads round about,
some of 'em wi' bags and bags of gold to their names, and all wanting BONDUCA to be their lawful
wedded wife."

ABRAHAM shifted again. A cunning smile played about the hard lines of his face. "POLLY," he
said, bringing his closed fist down upon his knee with a sudden violence, "you pick the richest,
and let him carry BONDUCA to the pa'son. Good looks wear badly, and good characters be of no
account; but the gold's the thing for us. Why," he continued, meditatively, "the old house
could be new thatched, and you and me live like Lords and Ladies, away from the mulch o' the
barton, all in silks and satins, wi' golden crowns to our heads, and silver buckles to our feet."

POLLY nodded eagerly. She was a Wessex woman born, and thoroughly understood the pure and unsophisticated
nature of the Wessex peasant.

CHAPTER III.

Meanwhile BONDUCA PEEP--little BO PEEP was the name by which the country-folk all knew her--sat
dreaming upon the hill-side, looking out with a premature woman's eyes upon the rich valley
that stretched away to the horizon. The rest of the landscape was made up of agricultural scenes
and incidents which the slightest knowledge of Wessex novels can fill in amply. There were
rows of swedes, legions of dairymen, maidens to milk the lowing cows that grazed soberly upon
the rich pasture, farmers speaking rough words of an uncouth dialect, and gentlefolk careless
of a milkmaid's honour. But nowhere, as far as the eye could reach, was there a sign of the
sheep that Bo had that morning set forth to tend for her parents. Bo had a flexuous and finely-drawn
figure not unreminiscent of many a vanished knight and dame, her remote progenitors, whose
dust now mouldered in many churchyards. There was about her an amplitude of curve which, joined
to a certain luxuriance of moulding, betrayed her sex even to a careless observer. And when
she spoke, it was often with a fetishistic utterance in a monotheistic falsetto which almost
had the effect of startling her relations into temporary propriety.

CHAPTER IV.

Thus she sat for some time in the suspended attitude of an amiable tiger-cat at pause on the
edge of a spring. A rustle behind her caused her to turn her head, and she saw a strange procession
advancing over the parched fields where--[Two pages of field-scenery omitted.--ED.] One by
one they toiled along, a far-stretching line of women sharply defined against the sky. All
were young, and most of them haughty and full of feminine waywardness. Here and there a coronet
sparkled on some noble brow where predestined suffering had set its stamp. But what most distinguished
these remarkable processionists in the clear noon of this winter day was that each one carried
in her arms an infant. And each one, as she reached the place where the enthralled BONDUCA
sat obliviscent of her sheep, stopped for a moment and laid the baby down. First came the Duchess
of HAMPTONSHIRE followed at an interval by Lady MOTTISFONT and the Marchioness of STONEHENGE.
To them succeeded BARBARA of the House of GREBE, Lady ICENWAY and Squire PETRICK's lady. Next
followed the Countess of WESSEX, the Honourable LAURA and the Lady PENELOPE. ANNA, Lady BAXBY,
brought up the rear.

BONDUCA shuddered at the terrible rencounter. Was her young life to be surrounded with infants?
She was not a baby-farm after all, and the audition of these squalling nurslings vexed her.
What could the matter mean? No answer was given to these questionings. A man's figure, vast
and terrible, appeared on the hill's brow, with a cruel look of triumph on his wicked face.
It was THOMAS TATTERS. BONDUCA cowered; the noble dames fled shrieking down the valley.

"Bo," said he, "my own sweet Bo, behold the blood-red ray in the spectrum of your young life."

"Say those words quickly," she retorted.

"Certainly," said TATTERS. "Blood-red ray, Broo-red ray, Broo-re-ray, Brooray! Tush!" he broke
off, vexed with BONDUCA and his own imperfect tongue-power, "you are fooling me. Beware!"

"I know you, I know you!" was all she could gasp, as she bowed herself submissive before him.
"I detest you, and shall therefore marry you. Trample upon me!" And he trampled upon her.

CHAPTER V.

Thus BO PEEP lost her sheep, leaving these fleecy tail-bearers to come home solitary to the
accustomed fold. She did but humble herself before the manifestation of a Wessex necessity.

And Fate, sitting aloft in the careless expanse of ether rolled her destined chariots thundering
along the pre-ordained highways of heaven, crushing a soul here and a life there with the tragic
completeness of a steam-roller, granite-smashing, steam-fed, irresistible. And butter was churned
with a twang in it, and rustics danced, and sheep that had fed in clover were "blasted," like
poor BONDUCA's budding prospects. And, from the calm nonchalance of a Wessex hamlet, another
novel was launched into a world of reviews, where the multitude of readers is not as to their
external displacements, but as to their subjective experiences.

[THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW GALLERY.

This is the place to see the "female form divine" of all shapes and sizes. Walk up, walk up,
and look at a few of the young Ladies:--

No. 13. "White Roses." E.J. POYNTER, R.A. Thorns here, evidently, judging by the young woman's
look of anguish. And this is the moral POYNTER points.

No. 66. "A War Cloud." A Music-HALLÉ singing "Rule Britannia!" with proper dressings.

No. 18. "Paderewski." Surely it ought to be PATTY REWSKY, with "Miss" before the name. Moral,
"Get your hair cut!"

No. 284. "Nightfall in the Dauphinée." "Might fall," it ought to be, and no wonder if she walked
about on so dark a night with such a load in her arms!

No. 165. "Che sara sara." A pedestrian match in the Metropolis. In fact, Walker, London. A
portrait of Sarah, after she has been let down into the punt, the shock having dislocated her
shoulder. She might have kept Col. Neal's clothes round her neck to hide her back.

No. 77. This is the gem of the collection. It is by FRNND KHNPFF. Our Head Critic was so overcome
by this great work that he went out to get assistance, but unfortunately, in trying to pronounce
the painter's name, he dislocated his jaw, and is now in a precarious state. Our Assistant
Critic, Deputy Assistant Critic, Deputy Assistant Sub-Critic, and a few extra Supernumerary
Critics, then went in a body and looked at this young woman's head, apparently taken after
an interview with Madame Guillotine. They looked at the head from all sides, and finally stood
on their own, but they could not make head or tail of it. Any person giving information as
to the meaning, and paying threepence, will receive a presentation copy of this journal.

There are other portraits of the latest fashion in young Ladies, but those mentioned above
are the most remarkable in the New Girlery.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANY MAN TO ANY WOMAN.

  O woman, in our hours of ease,
  We smile, and say, "Go as you please!"
  But when there's prospect of a row,
  You're best out of it anyhow.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TWO ARCHERS.--In the P.M.G. of Saturday last, WILLIAM ARCHER, in a signed article, criticises
a book on "How to Write a Good Play, by FRANK ARCHER." In expressing his opinion of the book,
WILLIAM becomes Frank--unpleasantly Frank.

       *       *       *       *       *

A RIDDLE.

  While Publishers their fortunes make
    And wax exceeding fat,
  The Author still is like a rake.
    Now, pray account for that.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATER-COLOUR ROOM AT THE ACADEMY.

  Oh, what a smell from the kitchen to spur comers
    Out of this room, where we think more of ham
  Than HORSLEYS, of soup than STONES, hashes than HERKOMERS,
    Mix MILLAIS with mutton, and LEIGHTON with lamb,

  Think of salmon and cucumber, stilton and celery,
    And not of the drawings at which we should look;
  Reminded, when making a tour round this gallery,
    But little of "Gaze," and a great deal of "Cook." As TENNYSON somewhere says, Session comes but Members
linger. Not forty present when business commenced. "May as well go
on." said the SPEAKER, whom everybody glad to see looking brisk and
hearty after his holiday. "They'll drop in by-and-by."

