CONTENTS

       *       *       *       *       *

                                                           PAGE.

EDITORIAL.

  THE FIGURES--FINANCIAL                                     213
  FAREWELL AND GREETING                                      215
  HIGHER EDUCATION OF THE NEGRO                              217
  OPINIONS                                                   219
  PARAGRAPHS                                                 221

THE SOUTH.

  BEREA COLLEGE, KY.                                         221
  ANNIVERSARY AT TALLADEGA                                   222
  TOUGALOO COMMENCEMENT                                      223
  TILLOTSON INSTITUTE                                        224
  AVERY INSTITUTE--BREWER NORMAL SCHOOL                      226
  STUDENT'S LETTER                                           227

THE INDIANS.

  THE APACHE RAID                                            229
  INDIAN SUMMER TENT (cut)                                   230

THE CHINESE.

  TOUR AMONG THE MISSIONS                                    231

BUREAU OF WOMAN'S WORK.

  RESOLUTIONS AT SARATOGA                                    233
  PAPER MISSION--INDUSTRIAL LETTER FROM LE MOYNE             234

CHILDREN'S PAGE.

  PLAYING 'POSSUM                                            234

RECEIPTS                                                     235

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW YORK:

PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION.

Rooms, 56 Reade Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRESIDENT, Hon. WM. B. WASHBURN, LL. D., Mass.

Vice-Presidents.

  Rev. C. L. GOODELL, D. D., Mo.
  Rev. A. J. F. BEHRENDS, D. D., N. Y.
  Rev. D. O. MEARS, D. D., Mass.
  Rev. F. A. NOBLE, D. D., Ill.
  Rev. ALEX. McKENZIE, D. D., Mass.

Corresponding Secretary.

  Rev. M. E. STRIEBY, D. D., 56 Reade Street, N. Y.

Assistant Corresponding Secretary.

  Rev. JAMES POWELL, D. D., 56 Reade Street, N. Y.

Treasurer.

  H. W. HUBBARD, Esq., 56 Reade Street, N. Y.

Auditors.

  W. H. ROGERS,
  PETER McCARTEE.

Executive Committee.

  JOHN H. WASHBURN, Chairman.
  A. P. FOSTER, Secretary.

  For Three Years.

  LYMAN ABBOTT.
  A. S. BARNES.
  J. R. DANFORTH.
  CLINTON B. FISK.
  A. P. FOSTER.

  For Two Years.

  S. B. HALLIDAY.
  SAMUEL HOLMES.
  SAMUEL S. MARPLES.
  CHARLES L. MEAD.
  ELBERT B. MONROE.

  For One Year.

  J. E. RANKIN.
  WM. H. WARD.
  J. L. WITHROW.
  JOHN H. WASHBURN.
  EDMUND L. CHAMPLIN.

District Secretaries.

  Rev. C. L. WOODWORTH, D. D., 21 Cong'l House, Boston.
  Rev. J. E. ROY, D. D., 112 West Washington Street, Chicago.

  Rev. CHARLES W. SHELTON, Financial Secretary for Indian Missions.

Field Officer.
  ----

Bureau of Woman's Work.

  Secretary, Miss D. E. EMERSON, 56 Reade Street, N. Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMUNICATIONS

Relating to the work of the Association may be addressed to the Corresponding Secretary; those
relating to the collecting fields, to Rev. James Powell, D. D., or to the District Secretaries;
letters for the "American Missionary," to the Editor, at the New York Office.

FORM OF A BEQUEST.

"I BEQUEATH to my executor (or executors) the sum of ---- dollars, in trust, to pay the same
in ---- days after my decease to the person who, when the same is payable, shall act as Treasurer
of the 'American Missionary Association,' of New York City, to be applied, under the direction
of the Executive Committee of the Association, to its charitable uses and purposes." The Will
should be attested by three witnesses.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY

VOL. XXXIX.     AUGUST, 1885.     No. 8.

       *       *       *       *       *

American Missionary Association.

       *       *       *       *       *

$365,000

NEEDED FOR THE CURRENT YEAR.

       *       *       *       *       *

Your Committee are convinced that not less than a THOUSAND DOLLARS a day are imperatively demanded
to perfect the admirably organized plans of the Association, even for the present, to say nothing
of the pressing needs of the early future.--

[FINANCE COMMITTEE'S REPORT ADOPTED BY ANNUAL MEETING AT SALEM.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIGURES.

                                    Donations.       Legacies.    Total.

  Oct. 1, 1884, to June 30, 1885 - $153,072.30      $23,884.35  $176,956.65
  Oct. 1, 1883, to June 30, 1884 -  145,821.49       31,169.90   176,991.39
                                   -----------      ----------  -----------
                                Inc. $7,250.81  Dec. $7,285.55  Dec. $34.74

These figures on their face are encouraging rather than discouraging. They show that our receipts
from living donors are better by a few thousand dollars than last year, an evidence of the
hold that we still have upon the churches, made all the more conspicuous in these hard times.
But these figures do not tell the whole story. The $40,000 debt to which we have made frequent
reference hitherto is still pending. To this must be added the $13,000 debt that came over
from last year.

Only two working months are left. Our fiscal year ends with September. From month to month
we have published the figures. Our friends have been able to trace for themselves just how
the financial struggle has been maintained. Donations from churches and individuals have been
kept distinct from legacies, and comparison made with receipts of the corresponding months
in the preceding year. A varying story the figures have had to tell.

There is a slave hymn:

  "I'm sometimes up and I'm sometimes down,
  But still my soul is heavenly bound."

That has been the case with our feelings as we have followed the rise and fall in the comparisons.
But amid all the fluctuations we have had an abiding confidence that before the year ends there
will be such a rally by our friends that we shall come out free of debt. Are we to be disappointed?
We are approaching the time for decisive thought and action. We cannot delay much longer. The
figures this month not only show that in the total we are a little behind, but they also indicate
that our reliance for relief must be in the living and not in the dead. We have no large legacies
that are available in sight, and we have no reserve fund on which to draw to avert disaster.
Can the threatening deficit be averted? Can our friends meet the demand? Yes, and much more.
All that is needed is the will to do; the ability exists.

We appeal to the wealthy to take this matter upon their hearts and minds at once. We beg them
to send on, as soon as possible, generous donations to our treasury. Their example at this
time will be most inspiring.

We ask all our friends to do what they can. "The two mites" that in the Lord's mode of estimating
count more than many of the larger gifts, we cannot possibly do without. The little rills and
the small streams must make their contributions, or the broad and deep river on which we are
to float and be saved will not form.

Especially do we plead that every Congregational church in the country, large and small, without
exception, will see to it that before the end of next September it shall be on record as having
taken a contribution within the year for the American Missionary Association. Pastors, deacons,
church clerks and church treasurers, will you not, for the sake of this endangered cause, for
the sake of the millions of Christ's poor for whom we labor, give us the help of your influence
to secure this? We believe you will.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Thirty-ninth Annual Meeting of the American Missionary Association will be held in Madison,
Wisconsin, October 27-29. The sermon will be preached by the Rev. Reuen Thomas, D. D., Brookline,
Mass. We hope to see the East well represented at this meeting, and trust that as many of our
friends as possible will make their plans to be there. The brethren in the West will be glad
to welcome them. Additional notices will appear hereafter.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAREWELL AND GREETING.

We regret to announce that Professor Salisbury, who for the past three years has been Superintendent
of our school work, this month severs his connection officially with the A. M. A. He goes to
take charge of the State Normal School at Whitewater, Wis. This is the school in which we found
him as a professor, when we called him to our ranks, and now we are called to give him up that
he may go back to stand at its head. We can ill afford to spare him. He is not only a master
in his knowledge of everything connected with schools, in respect to organization, discipline
and best methods of teaching, but he is also a man of remarkable executive ability.

When he entered our work he certainly came into the kingdom for a day that had been providentially
prepared. The work had taken on massive proportions. All over the South our schools had been
planted. These schools were branches of the same tree; they had a common trunk and drew their
life and spirit from the same soil. But, separated so far from one another, as many of them
were, there came to be a felt necessity that some one competent to care for their common interests,
while recognizing at the same time their separate prerogatives and rights, must be found. Multiplied
variety necessarily had characterized their development, and as a consequence, the unity of
their origin and aim had been endangered. That is a law of nature. We had been brought to see
and feel this. We looked around to find the man equal to the task involved. It was not easy
to find him. We realized the difficulty. Our workers realized it. It would not have been strange
if we had made a mistake. A rare combination of qualifications was demanded. We believed that
Professor Salisbury possessed these qualifications. We invited him to take up the work. He
accepted. He entered, and continued in it down to the last moment he held the office, with
all his heart and soul, and now that he has felt constrained to leave us we are glad, not only
on his account, but also on our own, unreservedly to bear testimony that, we believe, no mistake
was made when he was appointed.

He has rendered the American Missionary Association signal service, and when we remember how
intimately the work of this Association is connected with the welfare of the nation, it is
not too much to say that he has in these three years of hard and faithful work rendered signal
service to the whole land. Our school work has steadily grown in efficiency and power ever
since he took it up, and the general cause of education all over the South has been benefited
by the impulse his teaching, character and devotion have inspired. Not alone the colored schools,
but the white schools as well, have been the gainers. By his lectures and instruction given
in Normal Institutes, and by his personal contact with the leading educators of the South,
he has brought in no small degree a knowledge of the most approved methods of teaching to the
attention of Southern educators, and has done much to develop a sentiment in favor of popular
education among the people.

It is a high compliment to his ability the State of Wisconsin pays in calling him back and
investing him with the principalship of the same school from which we took him; and, as we
reluctantly return him, we can wish for him no greater blessing than that the same success
may attend his labors in the field to which he goes that, with God's favor, has so abundantly
crowned him in the one he leaves.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The king is dead; long live the king." We have just been speeding the parting guest. We now
turn to welcome the coming. That we have done the "speeding" reluctantly does not abate the
heartiness with which we now do the "welcoming." To such an extent had our church work been
systematized under Superintendent Roy, and our school work under Superintendent Salisbury,
that when we had to transfer the one to the Western District Secretaryship, and had to lose
the other, we felt that the two positions might possibly be merged. The very success of these
workers had made this practicable. Not that the work of the two could be done by any one man.
They are not that kind of men, as our constituents well know. They are both of them drivers.
It is almost enough to discourage any ordinary man to see either of them work. A hard position
to fill surely. We are glad to say that after a good deal of searching we believe we have found
the man.

We have appointed Rev. C. J. Ryder, of Medina, Ohio, as our Field Superintendent. He accepts
the appointment and will take up the work the first of September. He will be located at Cincinnati,
from which point, by reason of its central location and excellent railroad facilities, he will
be able to reach out in all directions. A successful pastor--an able preacher, having had experience
and success as a teacher, and in addition possessing already considerable knowledge of our
work, he will enter the field with the opinions of all those who know him best united that
he will make it a success. We welcome him to the ranks of our fellowship in the glorious cause
of bringing the light of the gospel and Christian education to the poor; we welcome him to
the rich joy the expressions of their heart-felt gratitude will cause him to experience. We
welcome him to the love and confidence and co-operation of our missionaries whose hearts will
be made glad by his visits and whose toil will be made lighter by his counsel; above all we
welcome him to the rewards God bestows upon those who are ready, if need be, to surrender everything
that they may follow Christ.

       *       *       *       *       *

HIGHER EDUCATION OF THE NEGRO.

REV. W. W. PATTON, D. D.

Many strangely adopt this wrong principle with regard to the negro race--that they are to be
treated not simply as men, but as colored men, as members of a peculiar and inferior race,
about whom one must not reason as he would about others, and especially about white men. One
writer thinks that his eyes have just been opened to the truth, for he says: "Like most Northern
men, I have made the mistake of judging the black by the standard of the white. A freer intercourse
with him and a closer study of his characteristics have shown me that he is not to be so judged,
and that the training adapted to the white man is not adapted to the black." In any reasonable
sense of these words, we regard them as involving the same error which so long hindered emancipation--the
idea that negroes could not be expected to act as would other men in the same circumstances.
It used to be argued that freed negroes would refuse to labor, and would simply plunder and
massacre. The history of the last twenty years, and the enormous crops raised at the South
since the war, have disproved this absurdity, although the writer quoted still has his doubts,
for he says of the negro: "We must take him as he is; and because we have not done this, his
freedom, which has been of inestimable value to the Southern white man, has until now been
a most questionable blessing to the negro!" One who can utter that doubt has some defect of
vision, which disqualifies him from reaching safe conclusions respecting the colored race.
Now, every race has certain peculiarities, and so has every nation, and to these we have a
degree of regard in our intercourse with them. In minor matters, we remember, in our dealings,
that this man is a Scotchman, and that man a Welshman, and that a Frenchman, and that a German.
But in great questions of principle and method touching humanity, such as education and religion,
we drop race and nation, and act upon simple manhood. If we do not, we are sure to err. The
true idea in the case before us is, not to think perpetually of the black skin and the African
blood, but of the man, and to use with the negro precisely the measures which should be used
with white men in the same circumstances of ignorance and poverty, and with the same responsibilities
as citizens. And it is singular that objectors to our work do not seem to be aware that the
precise difficulty which they emphasize respecting the black masses at the South has been equally
emphasized by others respecting the white masses at the North. The complaint everywhere heard
in the Northern States is, that the common people are being so highly educated as to become
dissatisfied with labor. The young men and young women refuse to work at manual industries,
and take to trade and the professions, or else become dissipated idlers. Hence attempts are
making to attach industrial education to our common schools. Why, then, talk of the peculiarities
of the negro in this matter? There are none. He simply shares in the temptations which beset
all races, and we must reason accordingly, and plan alike for the masses of the people, black
and white.

One should avoid extreme and disproportionate statements and implications. The same writer
runs a tilt against all education for the negro above the most rudimental, and says: "I have
failed to see one who has been made a better man or a better citizen by this higher education;
on the contrary, I know of very many who have been morally and socially ruined by it." We are
sorry that his acquaintance has been so unfortunate with this class. Others have had the happiness
to know scores and hundreds of well-educated colored people who are doing great credit to their
race as ministers, physicians, editors, lawyers, teachers and authors. To one of these, a graduate
of a theological institution, aided by this Association, the District Attorney in the part
of Virginia where he now lives, recently addressed a letter of thanks for his having wrought
a moral revolution in that county, saying: "Your boldness in condemning the wrong and asserting
and approving the right has not only impressed the colored, and influenced their conduct in
the right direction, but it has at the same time won for you the confidence and esteem of all
the thinking portion of the white race, who are interested in good government and a well-ordered
and law-abiding community ... for which this community ought to be profoundly grateful." And
this man is also "ebon black." And here we would correct the impression that a large disproportion
of the negroes are receiving "a higher education." The idea is given out that a great mistake
has been made by the societies and philanthropists that are seeking the elevation of the freedmen.
It would relieve the quite unnecessary alarm of objectors if they would consult the United
States census for the statistics of the negro population, and then compare with its six millions
of colored people the few thousands of them found in the colleges, academies, high schools,
theological seminaries, medical and law schools of the land. Probably not more than one negro
in a thousand is receiving anything beyond the very simplest instruction. Surely, then, no
great harm can yet have been done, or is likely to be done, for many years to come. And yet,
long before the objectors had spoken, these same educators had begun to add industrial training
to book learning, and they are now pushing this branch as fast as the pecuniary means are furnished.

Nor should we overlook the vast and pressing necessities to which the higher education stands
related. There is a loud and general call for competent colored teachers, instead of there
being such a surplus as the aforementioned writer found when he says, "There was only one vacancy
where there were fifty teachers." A remarkably favored locality! The superintendents of Southern
schools tell a very different story. Not long since, the Rev. Dr. Haygood, of Georgia, in an
article in the Independent, called for fifty thousand colored physicians, to be furnished as
speedily as possible. And who can exaggerate the need of educated colored ministers to take
the place of the old ignorant preachers? And how is any race to rise without intelligent leaders
of their own in every locality? These will naturally be found in their men of education and
property, in their ministers, physicians, lawyers, editors, teachers and political representatives.
It is idle and wrong to repress or ignore the ambition of negroes of talent to be something
more than laborers and servants, bootblacks and whitewashers. They must have the chance that
others have, in proportion to their numbers; no more, no less. And all these rising colored
men must have correspondingly intelligent wives, for their comfort and improvement and for
the training of their children. To meet such wants the existing schools of high grade will
all be needed and should all be liberally endowed.

       *       *       *       *       *

OPINIONS.

The American Missionary Association and those allied to it have been the chief agency at the
South, so far as benevolent effort is concerned, in diffusing right notions of religion, and
in carrying education to the darkened mind of the negro.--Hon. J. L. M. Curry.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of all the questions which disturb the mental equanimity of the patriotic and thinking citizen
of our Republic, none is looming in his horizon with a more lurid and portentous aspect than
the black cloud of illiteracy which is rapidly spreading over the country, and especially resting
upon the Southern States of the Union. Compared with it as an element of vital danger to the
Republic, Mormonism, Communism and Socialism sink into obscurity. The only way out of the unfortunate
dilemma or of ameliorating the condition in which the country is placed by the thrusting upon
it of this mass of ignorance, is by education--an education both mental and moral.--George
R. Stetson.

       *       *       *       *       *

The real tests of Northern zeal and liberality, of Northern faith and patience in the work
of educating the negro, are yet to come. At the first, Christian zeal was mightily stimulated
by the patriotic fervors of a great war for the preservation of the Union. In most minds the
course of events identified the preservation of the Union and the abolition of slavery. The
tremendous moral and political forces that were at work during the war, and for many years
after its close, all conspired to make such an appeal to the thought, sentiment and conscience
of the church in the North as was perhaps never before made for any form of Christian philanthropy.
Christian men and women were filled with pity for the poor negroes, and there was a movement
of "men and money" for their education that was never before seen in this, or perhaps any other,
country. The effort was stupendous, and the results are amazing.

But the conditions that obtained from 1865 to 1875 will obtain no more. The enthusiasms peculiar
to that period pass away with the coming of a new generation. The work must go on now as the
foreign missionary movement of Christendom goes on--by the force that is born of a fixed conviction
and an unquestioning faith in God's purpose to save the world and in His plan of saving it.

It is saddening, it is not surprising, to know that some noble men and women teaching in negro
schools in the South are discouraged. This is natural, but nevertheless perilous, as well as
distressing. One teacher, long in the service, speaks thus: "Some are much discouraged; we
have expected by this time to see results more permanent in the negro character; we thought
it would be somewhat as we have seen it in our Western colleges after a few years."

Such a basis of comparison is very unjust to the negro and very hurtful to his teacher. We
must not forget heredity; we must compare the negro as to education in schools in 1884 with
1864. The white man has behind him a thousand years of the influences that enter into our best
education. Yet how much he has to learn! How much easier for white pupils to learn books than
virtue--how much easier to acquire knowledge than wisdom! Let us have patience with each other.
Let us also settle down to steady work, steady giving and constant praying. This is a work
for the next hundred years--and more.--The Advance.

       *       *       *       *       *

The feeling is too prevalent, even among Christians, that "the only good Indian is a dead Indian."
If parents would put into the hands of their children reports of our missionaries, so they
could see what is being done for the Indians, instead of letting them get their opinions of
the Indian race from newspaper articles and from books of Indian wars, in which the rifle and
scalping knife were the only arguments used, much prejudice would be removed and the missions
among Indians would be better sustained. Further, if parents themselves would take the above
advice, it would be time and money well spent, as some grown-up children might learn as well.--Correspondent
in St. Louis Evangelist.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bishop H. M. Turner, of the M. E. Church South, is said to be the first colored man who has
ever received the degrees of D. D. and LL. D. He educated himself at night among the cotton
fields of South Carolina, and was the first colored chaplain in the United States Army.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is said by the Journal of Education that the colored people of the country now edit over
100 newspapers, teach 18,000 public schools with 900,000 pupils, raise annually 150,000,000
bushels of cereals and 2,700,000,000 pounds of cotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONGREGATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHRISTIAN CHINESE.

Out of our missions in California has sprung the Congregational Association of Christian Chinese.
What is its object? "Mutual watch and care; arrangement for special seasons of worship in connection
with the missions, the appointment of brethren to preach at stated times and places, and a
certain measure of mutual aid and relief." A grand object, surely. The Central Association,
with three branches, is in San Francisco. In other parts of the State there are nine branches.
The total membership is 378. Jee Gam, whom many of our readers will remember in connection
with his visit East four years ago, is the Secretary.

       *       *       *       *       *

The new catalogue of Straight University, by an error of the printer, is made to say that the
first building on Esplanade street was erected and destroyed in 1870. This strikes out seven
of the most important years of the University's history. The date of destruction should have
been 1877. As many of our friends in visiting the International Exposition at New Orleans took
occasion to visit Straight University, and may have received catalogues of the same, we deem
it proper to call attention to this mistake.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SOUTH.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEREA COLLEGE, KY.

The Berea College Commencement was held June 17-24. There was present a number of distinguished
men from abroad, among whom may be mentioned Roswell Smith, of the Century Magazine, New York;
Geo. W. Cable, the well-known author; Rev. Washington Gladden, D. D., Rev. Robert West, of
the Chicago Advance; Hon. Cassius M. Clay, and Judge Beckner, of Kentucky. Roswell Smith made
a gift of $5,000 to the institution. We make the following extract from the baccalaureate sermon
of Prof. Wright, in which he ably discusses the question of caste:

"However long this state of things may continue, do not despairingly conclude that it is never
to be broken down. The stars in their courses fight against injustice and folly. The very stones
of the field are in league with those who are on the side of equity and fairness. Any region,
small or large, that persists in a separation of races in its hotels, railroads, schools and
churches, dooms itself to an inferior rank in all the departments of its life--in its business
as effectively as in its intelligence and its piety.

"It costs more to keep up two sets of hotels than one. It costs more to build railroad stations
with separate waiting-rooms for two races than to build them with accommodations for ladies
and gentlemen without regard to race. It costs more to run trains, if separate passenger cars
must be provided for two races on every train. This cost will delay the building of railroads
in the first place, and this can only be met by higher rates of fare, which will impede business
progress.

"It costs more to maintain a double system of public schools than to provide for all the children
under a single system. This increases taxes, while at the same time the schools cannot be as
efficient, and this diminishes intelligence. For in scattered farming communities, the districts
must be so large under the double system that many families are out of reach of the school.
And the number of towns that can have graded schools is greatly reduced by the requirement
that no school shall receive pupils of more than one race. Normal schools are also made more
difficult to maintain, and teachers' institutes rendered less efficient. A lower average of
intelligence is as inevitable under such adverse conditions in the educational machinery of
a State, as slower speed in a racehorse is inevitable when he carries heavy weight.

"Similar things may be said of churches. Any community that insists on separate churches for
different races dooms itself to a lower grade of spiritual experience and a lower degree of
Christian activity. How must every good work be retarded if, in addition to the separation
of Methodists, Baptists, Presbyterians, and others which we find nearly everywhere, there must
also be a further separation of these by races; if in every neighborhood, however scattered
the population, there must be a white Methodist church with its white Methodist preacher, and
also a colored Methodist church with its colored Methodist preacher, a white Baptist church
and preacher, and also a colored Baptist church and preacher, a white Presbyterian church and
preacher, and so on through the list. In many cases such churches have service only once in
a month, and the members attend no other in the meantime. It is plain that of two regions alike
in other respects, the one that insists on race distinctions in the worship of the one God
and Father of us all, and will not allow men of different races to stand side by side in doing
Christian work, must maintain its religious institutions at greater cost and with less efficiency
because of this race separation.

"The region that treats all men impartially in its churches will have the advantage in religion
and morals. The region that knows no race distinctions in its schools will have the advantage
in intelligence. The region that is color-blind on its public conveyances and in its places
of business, will have the advantage in business, for it can equip and run steamboats and railroads
more economically and conduct factories at lower cost, while its higher average intelligence
will make it a producer of better goods. All these elements will conspire to give the impartial
community precedence in wealth, in literature, in art, in social attractiveness, as well as
in a high average intelligence; in orderly habits, and in both the power and the will to achieve
noble things. Power is coming into the hands of those who choose righteousness. Let all the
commonwealths in our broad land know that only by treating all men with impartiality can they
put themselves in alliance with the silent but irresistible forces of social and political
economy. There is no future for caste-practicing communities but decadence and increasing inferiority."

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNIVERSARY AT TALLADEGA.

Talladega College, chartered in 1869, had its fifteenth anniversary from June 14 to 18. The
Cassedy school gave an exhibition full of interest, and indicative of the good work done there,
on the preceding Friday evening. The college chapel was well filled at all these exercises,
and sometimes was too strait for the audience. The attendance from town, especially of our
white friends, was exceptionally large, and we have never heard so many and so appreciative
words of commendation before. Rev. Dr. Worrell, principal of a boys' school in Talladega, who
taught in our Swayne Hall before the War, when it was a Baptist College, was present, leading
us in a prayer memorable for its sympathy and fervency. Certainly the work of Talladega College
was never so strongly intrenched in the regard of the people of Alabama as now.

The full course of exercises for commencement was enacted in good order, including an able
Baccalaureate by Dr. Strieby, Missionary sermon by Rev. J. W. Roberts, Dallas, Texas, one of
our theological graduates, and an address by Dr. Roy, exercises of our two literary societies,
prize speaking and essays, public examinations, orations and essays on Commencement Day, and
ending with a reception at the President's house. Others can judge better of the worth of some
of these parts than the writer and his associates, but to us they seemed good. We were greatly
encouraged, and feel that our friends and patrons would have been pleased had they been present.

The Alumni Association, formed three years ago, was represented on Commencement Day by Mrs.
L. L. Wilson, who read an essay on "Homes and How to Make Them," and by Rev. J. W. Roberts,
whose theme was "Exceptional Greatness." That afternoon the Alumni held a meeting in the college
chapel, when representatives from States as far away as Arkansas and Texas were present, and
others were heard from by letter.

At the business meeting it was determined to begin an Alumni fund, in aid either of members
of the Association or the College.

The Exhibition of Industrial Work, both of the boys and girls, attracted much attention and
warm commendation. The Slater Shop, with its facilities for instruction in much wood, little
iron and some paint, made its first annual display, and those who believe in little other education
for the child of the late slave, and those who differ from them, all agreed in the great advantages
of this industrial training. The work exhibited was good; some of it very choice.

We feel that the College never had a better anniversary; take it all in all, never as good;
but with continued help such as we need, by the favor of God this may well be dwarfed by the
greater result of the near future. We are looking for that help with increasing confidence.

   H. S. DEFOREST.

       *       *       *       *       *

TOUGALOO COMMENCEMENT.

The unsurpassed wealth of our roses had just left their vanishing fragrance on the air, only
the Cherokees being left in profusion to lend their peculiar charm to our closing exercises,
but the grand old oaks standing like guardian sentinels around the grounds, in all the freshness
of their early leafage and festooned with the Spanish moss, ever faithful to all seasons, gave
to the place a patriarchal appearance, and an air of seclusion from temptation. The healthful
cedar boughs and buds bestowed their fragrance like a closing benediction.

Sec. Powell came to us with his strong earnest words of cheer and a lecture on Slave Music,
which our young people could illustrate and well appreciate. Gov. Lowry expressed a hearty
commendation of the exhibition of work from the industrial department, as well as the orations,
essays, dialogue, and declamation. The colloquy on our reading-room indicated that good use
had been made of that room, even if the number of volunteers for furnishing news items after
dinner had not always been as numerous as might be desired. Supt. Smith told us that many of
the best teachers in the State come from this school. Dr. Galloway and the city fathers of
Jackson showed their appreciation of the sentiments expressed by the young people, and we heartily
wished that the dear, good, noble-hearted workers of the North could have been present, who
have so generously opened their purses to educate and fit "our brother in black" for leading
his race from a darkness more than "skin deep" to noble citizenship. We wish you could realize,
as you only can by seeing it, what a stimulus every such work is to the white people of the
South, for as Dr. Haygood stated in his closing address, "though Northern money generously
erected these buildings and pays a large share of the salaries here, yet the State pays the
young men and women who go out from this school to teach in the country schools."

Dear friends, your investments are bringing in grand returns, but the needs of this race are
very great yet. It is sad to see the number who come to this institution with means to pay
their expenses for only a part of the year, hoping to come back another year, and trusting
that in some way they may be able to continue their studies.

A students' aid fund is much needed to assist worthy pupils. Aspirations are aroused that cannot
be quenched. The daily lessons in keeping rooms tidy, in personal habits, in doing thoroughly
whatever is undertaken, cannot be lost, even if pupils remain but a short time. The sentiment,
that to work is an honor, to be idle a disgrace, is so infused into their daily life that we
fully believe greater progress will be seen in the coming years than has been seen in the past.
The spirit of those who have labored with these ardent aspirants for higher, better, nobler
things has so entered into and permeated their very being, that it cannot lie dormant. Arouse
and cultivate the best there is in this race, and you have something worth making a sacrifice
for. God is showing us, by the way, that this is His own blessed work. We do not have to wait
long years to reap; the sheaves are abundant every year. In one of our late prayer-meetings
special causes for thanksgiving was the topic. There were many expressions of gratitude "for
the Christian influence of our school." One young man said: "I am just as thankful for what
I have learned in the workshop as in the school-room." After hearing of the 700,000 one-room
log-cabins of the South, and the need there is of skilled workmen, we felt like singing an
added song of praise as we looked through the work exhibited in wood, tin, iron, and cloth,
and saw the promise of better things. Surely the young men who can exhibit such work will not
allow their mothers, wives, and sisters to live in cabins through whose open roofs the stars
are visible when they shine.

You would travel far to find a more temptingly spread table than the girls of Tougaloo are
taught to prepare--all the eatables of their own make, even the delicious butter. Nowhere in
New England need you look for a nicer-kept cabin and yard than some of those on the little
homesteads lately purchased by President Pope, for one of his ideas of missionary work is to
help the colored man get a home, having for corner-stones "Industry, Economy, Temperance, and
Family Virtue."

       *       *       *       *       *

TILLOTSON INSTITUTE, AUSTIN, TEXAS.

The third of June witnessed the close of another year of successful work at Tillotson Institute.
Written examinations were held May 26-29. The results of this work, in a shape convenient for
inspection, were placed in the reading room, and attracted no little attention. Oral public
examinations were held June 1 and 2. These showed faithful work on the part of both teachers
and pupils. The classes in United States history and geometry deserve special mention. The
excitement of the occasion was a little too much for some of the young people, leading one
to say that Riel was the Governor-General of Canada, while another remarked that Florida, being
discovered on Easter Sunday, and being a land of flowers, was named the "Mayflower." These
blunders, however, were speedily corrected by the pupils themselves.

The rhetorical exercises of Tuesday evening called out a very fine audience. The chapel was
filled to overflowing. The exercises consisted of the usual programme of choruses, quartets,
recitations, declamations, essays, etc. Mr. Edward Wilson's rendering of his translation of
Cicero's First Oration against Catiline is deserving of special notice, though all the parts
were given without a single break or failure of memory. We observe our students have great
capacity for "rising to occasions."

In the midst of the programme we were most agreeably surprised by the appearance of Secretary
Powell, who happily closed the entertainment by a brief but stirring address.

The anniversary exercises of Wednesday morning made a fitting climax for the series of meetings.
Though not a "commencement" occasion, yet it was distinguished from other days of the closing
week, and from previous anniversaries, by the presentation of "certificates" to two young men
who have completed the "Elementary Normal Course." These young men remain with us to pursue
a further course of study. The address of one of them, Mr. A. S. Terrell, on the subject "Our
Duty," is especially worthy of notice. The subject was considered from the stand-point of the
advantages afforded colored people. "It is true," he said, "we must bear many hard things,
but let us look on the bright side. Let us consider and improve our opportunities. Let us accept
the good, from whatever source it comes. To join with Communists, labor-unions, and other discontented
classes, in a chorus of fault-finding and censure, because we cannot have everything we want,
is to take the sure road to the defeat of our most cherished objects." These are timely words,
and they reveal a state of feeling among colored people which finds all too fertile a soil
in the tendency to ignore, or discriminate, or, at best, grant but a supercilious recognition,
which still in great measure controls Southern sentiment. The colored people are naturally
loyal and conservative. It is possible, now, so to develop these qualities, that they shall
be national bulwarks. Some time it may be too late, and if reaction comes it will be terrible.

The attitude of many representative men of the South, however, is most encouraging. Our anniversary
exercises were honored by the presence of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction and
the County Superintendent of Travis Co., Hon. B. M. Baker and Judge Fullmore. In their addresses
at the conclusion of our programme, both gentlemen spoke with enthusiasm of the great progress
in educational matters that has been made in Texas during the past five years, among both white
and colored. The magnificent school fund of Texas, as rapidly as it becomes available, is devoted
to the interests of both races without discrimination. Mr. Baker emphasized the fact that notwithstanding
the liberal provision for a State system of schools, it would be many years before they could
dispense with the schools maintained by benevolent societies. The latter must be the main agency
for the training of teachers. For the present, the State must devote her energies to the building
of school-houses, and the establishment and maintenance of common schools, without attempting
very much in the line of higher education.

Both gentlemen spoke in high praise of Tillotson, and of the ability and trustworthy character
of the teachers she has sent out.

Secretary Powell made the concluding address, and brought the meeting to its highest point
of enthusiasm. The presence of these men representing educational interests, which not long
ago seemed to have nothing whatever in common, their interchange of courtesies, and their expression
of mutual dependence each upon the other, made the occasion both memorable and very full of
suggestion.

  J. H. PARR.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNIVERSARY WEEK AT AVERY INSTITUTE.

The closing exercises of the twentieth anniversary of Avery Normal Institute, Charleston, S.
C., occupied four days of the last week of June.

The week opened on Sunday, June 21, with a sermon to the graduating class, by the Rev. E. T.
Hooker, pastor of our A. M. A. church.

The morning hours of Wednesday and Thursday were devoted to oral examinations in all the departments.
A fine display of maps, drawing books, object drawings and original designs found scores of
admirers. The sewing done by the industrial classes made a creditable exhibit, and the garments
found ready purchasers. The remainder of the school hours of each day were given to rhetorical
exercises in the chapel of the institution.

On Wednesday, P. M., the sub-normal grades entertained their friends. Promptly at 12 m., they
filed into the chapel to a march from the piano. Music, recitations, gesture and sewing songs
pleasantly filled an hour and a half. A composition, "The New Colony," weaving in, in a humming
fashion, the surnames of some of the teachers and pupils, was highly appreciated by the crowded
house of parents and friends.

Thursday, P. M., the "Normals" held the Fort. The aim had not been to foster theatrical tastes,
nor to produce startling dramatic effects, but to render in a natural and easy manner, historic,
patriotic and practical selections, both of poetry and prose. Music, vocal and instrumental,
lent its charm to the general enjoyment.

Friday was wholly devoted to those whom Avery each year "delighteth to honor." A galaxy of
twenty-two formed the class of '85. Beginning promptly at 10 A. M., seventeen earnest, womanly
young women and five faithful young men, expressed their opinions on their chosen subjects,
in the form of essay or oration. From salutatory to valedictory, the quiet of the packed room
attested the interest taken in the evolution of each theme. The colored people of Charleston
are, intellectually, in advance of those of most other Southern cities. Before the "slight
misunderstanding," their native city was called the "Athens of the South," and, breathing the
same air as the more favored race, they naturally imbibed some of its cultured modes of thought.
The presentation of diplomas by the Principal, Prof. Wm. M. Bristoll, the singing of the Class
Song and the congratulations of friends closed the happy day.

  ANNA M. NICHOLAS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BREWER NORMAL SCHOOL.

The Thirteenth Anniversary Exercises of the Brewer Normal School took place at Greenwood, S.
C., on Thursday, June 25. The annual address was delivered at eleven o'clock A. M., by the
Rev. T. E. McDonald, of Columbia, to an unusually large audience, and enlisted earnest attention.
It will, we trust, be long remembered by those who heard it. It was followed by a short, earnest
talk from the Rev. H. M. Young, presiding elder of this district in the A. M. E. Church. The
singing was by the entire school and was loudly applauded. This was followed by an intermission
of an hour and a half, during which time friends held fellowship with friends and betook themselves
to the contents of abundantly laden refreshment baskets.

The afternoon exercises consisted of singing, recitations and dialogues by the children of
the primary department. Our large hall was bright with flowers, flags and happy faces, but
was by far too small to accommodate the immense throng seeking admission. The calisthenic exercises
and selections were well rendered and won many complimentary remarks. At 5 o'clock a memorial
service was held for a member of the school who, the year before, took a very prominent part
in our closing exercises, but who, after months of patient suffering, entered into rest April
6. The annual exhibition came off at 8 o'clock P. M. The programme consisted of sixteen parts,
interspersed with music. We were favored during the day with music from two brass bands. By
competent judges the declamations were pronounced superior to any heard on former occasions
of a similar character.

The attendance of the citizens from the town was a very pleasant feature. Brewer Normal has
made a deep impression on the white people. They acknowledge the good work that it has done
and is doing, and believe in the possibilities that are before it. The students in attendance
during the year were 168, an advance upon that of any previous year. We have had much for which
to be thankful during the first year connected with this institute; but let this be an inspiration
leading us to greater achievements during the year to come. On Friday morning, amid a "sweet
confusion" of tears, laughter and farewells, the halls of the school were closed for the summer
vacation, and the students boarded the trains to return to their homes.

  J. D. BACKENSTOSE.

       *       *       *       *       *

STUDENT'S LETTER.

STRAIGHT UNIVERSITY, NEW ORLEANS.

The path along which the mind must travel to obtain an education, is much like that on which
one goes to accomplish any desired end. The student will find in his way numberless difficulties
which seem higher than mountains, lower than valleys, and darker than any forest glade. The
Alpine traveler knows that he will meet many a rugged steep, that he must cross many a mountain
torrent on slender footing, make his way through many a gloomy valley. He does not give up,
but presses forward with eagerness and courage, until he reaches the summit and gazes as a
victor on the glorious scenes around.

So is it with the student who is determined to become useful to his fellow-men and to God.
His path is strewn with difficulties all the way. He meets discouragements and back-sets which
seem to him sometimes insurmountable, and he will need all his courage to keep on to the end.
In our Southern country there are, it seems to me, many difficulties which do not exist in
all parts of our land; but as I hear our teachers tell of their struggles and trials, I conclude
there is no broad, smooth way along which one may walk comfortably up to the temple of knowledge.

Many who are exceedingly anxious to become students have in early life lost their parents,
and, being poor, are unable to provide for themselves, and unless some helping hand is stretched
forth, must remain in ignorance. There are others, who, though in good circumstances, are not
able to appreciate the value of learning, and so care nothing for it. Again, there are many
communities in which the people, ignorant themselves, care nothing about the education of their
children, and will make no provisions for schools. I know of settlements of five hundred or
more inhabitants among whom there are scarcely any competent preachers, no good schools or
teachers, no missionary work going on, and the people in a very degraded state. Ignorant parents,
unless persuaded, are not apt to attend to the education of their children. It is a disadvantage
to any one aiming to prepare for future usefulness to meet with either of these unfavorable
circumstances that I have mentioned, and yet it is the case with thousands of our boys and
girls. The principles which ought to be impressed upon the children's minds while young are
neglected, and false ideas and degraded impressions are allowed to govern them. Thus, they
are robbed of an early training in those things which are the true foundations of a noble character.

Here are the plantations in this Southland around many of which yet cluster the stains of slavery,
and to look upon them in all their degradation is enough to cause a young man or woman who
was once acting in accordance with their sinfulness, but now trying to aim higher, to give
up and declare that it is useless to try to elevate the great mass of our people to a high
standard of citizenship and usefulness, and it is only when we remember that the hand of the
great God is in the work, that one can have any hope. How many to-day are idling away their
time, breaking the Sabbath, engaging in sinful sports, violating the State laws, disturbing
the peace of quiet citizens, disobeying their Supreme Ruler!

We have glanced at the dark side of this subject. Let us now turn to the bright. God has raised
up noble men who have loved us and labored for us--men whose names are familiar to all, and
who will be loved and honored through all generations. Can we be discouraged when we think
it was for us John Brown died? When we think of Abraham Lincoln, Charles Sumner, and all that
host of great men who saw the evils our race suffered and so nobly stood up for us, we will
not despair.

Our Christian friends at the North have given us liberty and citizenship. Noble Lincoln and
brave Grant were to us almost what Moses and Aaron were to the Israelites. These same people
are mastering another great problem. As soon as hostilities ceased they placed institutions
of learning within our reach. Under the A. M. A. and other associations, schools and colleges
are erected in the South for our advancement and training. Here is Straight University, founded
at the very centre of bitterness. From the regions round about she gathers young men and woman,
teaches them the truths of Christianity, educates them, and then sends them abroad to fill
the pulpits, to gather in the lost ones. Trained by those who have had the best education the
North could give them, they go out to teach the children, who, but for them, could have no
good teaching. The missionary cause carries light to the homes that are in darkness.

It is a great encouragement, not only to us but to our parents also, to know that we are acquiring
an education from the hands of these Christian helpers, so that we can become useful in the
world, good citizens, skilled in art and science, and in all branches of knowledge; to become
recognized in the best society, and to secure comfortable homes for ourselves; to know that
we are taught true principles of Christianity, so that we can use our learning aright, build
up God's kingdom, promote peace and happiness upon earth, and by and by, when that Eye which
looked down from heaven and saw the shackles of slavery struck from our hands and souls, sees
fit, we shall be the instruments in carrying the gospel of Christ across the sea to our fellow-men
who inhabit the dark continent. Difficulties there are, many and great; but nothing is too
difficult for the Almighty, and He is our helper and always will help if we ask Him.

The chance to get a good training is in the reach of nearly every one, if he will only try.
We are grateful to our benefactors and to God for these blessings. May His name be praised
and may He reward his servants in the end!

  C. W. JOHNSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INDIANS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE APACHE RAID.

BY GEN. C. H. HOWARD.

A private letter before me from a ranchman says: "Great excitement prevails all over this part
of Arizona from the breaking out of the Chiricahua Apaches. We expected them here, as this
is one of their old trails and watering places. We kept guard night and day. But they crossed
into New Mexico, to the north of us."

The old roaming ground of the Chiricahuas was Southern Arizona. For many years they defied
all attempts to subdue them. Their famous chief, Cochise, refused to make any treaty or even
to parley with the representatives of the Government.

In 1873, under Grant's "peace policy," General O. O. Howard was sent to Arizona and New Mexico
to make treaties with such of the Indians as could be reached. After he had visited many other
tribes, including several of the Apache family, and located them peaceably, he determined to
make one earnest effort to meet Cochise. The experience of twenty years proved that it would
be vain to try to capture him. One white man was found, a scout and interpreter, known as Captain
Jefferds, who spoke Apache and who was regarded by Cochise as a friend. He consented to try
and bring about a parley with Cochise, but declared no troops must be near. General Howard
took one aide-de-camp, and with Jefferds and two friendly Apaches, rode for two days until
they came near the stronghold. Jefferds then sent forward the two Indians with a message. They
went cautiously, kindling fires from point to point, and receiving answering signals. The next
day one of them returned, bringing word that Cochise would see the General and his party, and
that the messenger was to guide them to a designated place of meeting. Cochise was not there
on the arrival of the party, but some of his head men appeared soon after, had a talk with
Jefferds and were introduced to the General, all showing signs of a marked impression, from
the fact that the General had lost his right arm and carried no weapons. His Apache name was
ever afterwards the "The One-Armed Chief." Some of the Chiricahuas then mounted and rode away,
and not long after a body of Indians came galloping up. A powerfully-built man, fully armed
with rifle, revolvers and knife, dismounted and first took Jefferds by the hand, and then turned
and frankly greeted the General. The details of that interview, of the stay of the treaty-party
in the stronghold as Cochise's guests, for two days; their experience the first night, when
they were awakened in the middle of the night and the entire camp was moved to a still more
inaccessible natural fortification, far up in the mountains, owing to an apprehended attack
from a militia company which had pursued some marauding Chiricahuas the day before--all would
form an interesting and romantic chapter of Indian history.

The treaty stipulated that all raiding and marauding should cease; that the Chiricahuas should
confine themselves to a certain defined tract of country; that Captain Jefferds, whom Cochise
always called his brother, would be their agent, and that necessary food would be allowed them.
A definite time was granted in which Cochise was to communicate the terms of the treaty to
his absent chiefs, some of whom were in old Mexico or other distant places.

The treaty was kept by Cochise and the Chiricahuas for nine years, as long as he lived. They
were greatly incensed and felt that they were wronged when Capt. Jefferds was displaced, the
reservation marked out in the treaty was taken away, and they were removed from their traditional
home and herded upon the San Carlos reservation with other tribes, some of whom they greatly
despised. This, however, they still bore patiently or without manifest resentment until October,
1881. At that time there was trouble with other San Carlos tribes. The army marched upon the
reservation. The next night the Chiricahuas left. They started in the direction of their old
haunts, met freighting teams, murdered the drivers and took the horses, killed cattle and stole
other horses from ranchmen, had one or two slight skirmishes with the United States cavalry
and escaped into Mexico.

Gen. Crook's campaign into Mexico in pursuit of them is familiar to all. He captured their
women and children and old people, and in order, doubtless, to induce the leaders, who were
hidden in the fastnesses of the Sierra Madre mountains, to surrender, promised terms that have
been severely criticised. Those leaders, like Geronomo, whose hands were stained with murder,
were allowed to come back unmolested upon the reservation, to retain their arms, and to feel
that, instead of conquered foes of the government, and criminals justly and duly punished,
they had outwitted their white enemy and dictated their own terms of a peace to be broken at will.

Should not these Chiricahua leaders, having deliberately broken their treaty, and known to
be incorrigibly criminal, have been at least confined where they could neither incite nor lead
more murderous raids? It was neither a dictate of humanity nor of true statesmanship to set
them loose with arms in their hands. One of the essential steps in the civilization of any
tribe is to demonstrate that crimes are to be promptly and adequately punished.

But the utter neglect of the government, and of all missionary bodies, to send to these Chiricahuas
any teachers or to make any earnest attempt to civilize them, during the entire nine years
of their peaceable stay on the reservation, should, no doubt, be duly weighed when considering
the question of ultimate responsibility for this outbreak.--The Chicago Standard.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHINESE.

       *       *       *       *       *

A TOUR AMONG THE MISSIONS.

BY REV. W. C. POND.

Since writing my last account of our work for the MISSIONARY, I have visited several of our
Missions in the interior of the State, and, as far as I can in the space at my command, I will
recount my observations.

I. STOCKTON.--Except as, for a short time, more than thirty years ago, something was done by
Rev. S. V. Blakeslee in San Francisco, Stockton was the first point in California occupied
by the A. M. A. The work was continued there with scarcely a month's intermission from 1871
till about a year ago, when under financial pressure it was closed for a time. The intention
was to resume as soon as the opening of a new fiscal year gave me the right to draw against
a new appropriation. Meanwhile it was hoped that a temporary suspension might lead to a greater
interest on the part of the Chinese themselves, and that we should begin to get urgent requests
from them with pledges of coöperation such as had sometimes come to us from other places. It
was all a mistake for which your Superintendent is chastened, and repents. When we were ready
to resume, we found the convenient room which the school had occupied so many years rented
for quite other purposes, and no quarters could be obtained except at a rental too exorbitant.
Most of those among the pupils who had been specially benefited, and whose urgencies we should
otherwise have heard, had moved elsewhere, and the Macedonian cry which we hoped would put
us on vantage ground for future operations, did not come to our ears. The Chinese are very
numerous in Stockton--at least 1,000 constantly there, and probably 1,000 more who, working
here and there in the great San Joaquin Valley, make Stockton their rendezvous. I ought not
to have suspended work among them, but rather with faith and courage I should have pressed
it with greater zeal, and if hearts seemed harder there than elsewhere, I should have poured
in upon them more abundantly the light and love of Christ. All that I could accomplish on this
visit was to arrange conditionally for a room in a building not yet completed, and to intensify
my own determination somehow to carry to those dark, needy souls "the fullness of the blessing
of Christ."

II. SACRAMENTO.--It was good to come into the warm spiritual atmosphere of our Sacramento mission.
The tokens of God's blessing on our work there are unmistakable. Our readers have heard recently
from our helper, Chin Toy, and I forbear going into details. The best result of my visit was
in the decision of one of our pupils who had been highly commended to me by his brethren and
by Mrs. Carrington, to enter into missionary work. His name is Chin Kel. I am all the more
hopeful about him because he is distrustful of himself. This was the only ground of hesitancy
with him. The fact that it involved a very considerable pecuniary sacrifice does not seem to
have weighed with him at all. He will be stationed at Marysville, relieving our excellent brother
Joe Jet for work elsewhere.

III. MARYSVILLE.--Here, too, I found comfort with the brethren, and after the usual exercises
of the school were finished, at nine o'clock P. M., we sat down together at the Lord's table.
One brother was baptized and received to the church. All the resident members of the church
were present, and, if I mistake not, we broke the bread not only at about the same hour of
the evening, but with the same number of communicants as were gathered round the table in that
upper chamber at Jerusalem when this sacrament was first observed.

IV. OROVILLE.--The next two evenings were spent at Oroville, twenty-eight miles further north.
I took our faithful helper, Joe Jet, with me, and he will spend a month or more in that mission.
Two of the Marysville brethren also accompanied us, and one other was already there. I invited
them to be present because I proposed to organize our Oroville brethren into a church. Too
long already--too long, not by months, only, but by years--we had waited, hoping that the church
already existing in Oroville would open its doors and extend a brother's hand to these disciples;
and we believed that they ought not longer to be debarred the privileges of the sacraments
and of church fellowship. Several who in years past have given evidence of conversion in connection
with this mission, are now elsewhere. Four young men, after careful examination, in which Joe
Jet and the Marysville brethren shared, were constituted into "The Bethany Church of Oroville."
Four others were believed to be Christians, but, as being recent converts, were held under
probation awhile, as is the custom in our missions. When we sat down on Friday evening to the
Lord's table it was found that four other churches were informally represented by members present,
and thus, in some sense, the fellowship of the churches was expressed.

V. TULARE.--My next visit was made to Tulare, in the southern part of the San Joaquin Valley.
I was greatly interested in what I found. My hopes were more than realized. Believing that
our work will be permanent and fruitful, I bought, on my own responsibility, a lot, and contracted
for the erection of a comfortable Mission-house, which having been put up with Californian
speed, was dedicated on Monday, May 18. I could not myself be present at the service, but Rev.
D. Goodsell, pastor of the Congregational Church, conducted it well. There were songs and Scripture
readings by the pupils, an address by Ju Guy, the helper, giving in a brief and modest way
his own religious experience; addresses also by Bro. Goodsell and by Rev. Mr. McMillan, of
the M. E. Church; a collection which under the circumstances was quite generous; and finally
a banquet which the pupils asked the privilege of providing for their friends.

VI. FRESNO.--My last visit was at Fresno, the largest and most promising town between Stockton
and Los Angeles. Here I found fully 500 Chinese. Many more, doubtless, make their headquarters
here. Ju Guy accompanied me from Tulare, and in about six hours found five of his countrymen
who professed to be Christians. Three of these were Baptists from Oregon, one a Methodist and
one a Congregationalist. All were ready to coöperate. The last one gave his name as Soo Hoo
Foo, and said that about eight years ago he began to believe in Jesus, and united in San Francisco
with our "Congregational Association of Christian Chinese." Soon after this he left the city,
and ever since has been almost entirely destitute of Christian instruction and companionship.
Yet he had not relinquished his purpose to follow Christ, and his heart warmed at once at the
prospect of a mission in Fresno. Our school was started there May 1, and gives good promise
of permanent usefulness. The teacher speaks in glowing terms about Soo Hoo Foo, believing that
he might be trained for good service as a missionary. About this time will tell; but certainly
our faith may well be strengthened and our hearts gladdened to see how the Good Shepherd knows
and keeps His scattered lambs.

       *       *       *       *       *

BUREAU OF WOMAN'S WORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS D. E. EMERSON, SECRETARY.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the ladies interested in our Bureau of Woman's Work may wish to see the resolutions adopted
by the representatives of the several woman's missionary societies at the meeting held in Saratoga
June 4, we herewith print them:

    Resolved, That we, the representatives of the several
    State women's home missionary societies present at the
    Saratoga meeting, entreat the women of all the States to
    form State societies, and add their contributions to those
    of the great national societies to carry on all branches
    of the missionary work in our own land, and to urge them
    also to make corresponding effort to increase intelligence
    in regard to home work.

    Resolved, That a committee of three ladies be appointed
    to open correspondence with representatives in the
    different States where no societies now exist, and in all
    practicable ways to promote unity of interest and action
    in home work.

The committee appointed were:

Mrs. W. Kincaid, 483 Greene avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Mrs. C. A. Richardson, 123 Washington avenue, Chelsea, Mass.

Mrs. E. S. Williams, 1729 Eleventh avenue South, Minneapolis, Minn.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PAPER MISSION.

This unique enterprise in missionary work was started three years ago by Miss Nancy Marsh,
Providence, R. I. Miss Marsh writes:

"Our third year of labor among the freedmen has just closed. We have sent to about forty places
2,312 papers and pamphlets, 1,113 lesson papers, 1,006 lesson cards, 174 tracts, 393 Scripture
cards, 109 Christmas and picture cards, 29 books of various kinds and 84 lithographs; 66 letters
and postals have been written. A box was sent in October last to a pastor in Texas, with some
articles of clothing, 'Barnes' Notes' and other books."

Miss Marsh has received many letters from the missionaries, gratefully acknowledging the help
that the papers have been. One writes: "I wish you could step in and see the little ones in
their several classes, how their eyes sparkle when the papers are given out." Another: "It
did me good to feel that one whom I had never seen would interest herself in my work here in
this isolated spot. I send you my sincere thanks." A pastor says: "Our new church was dedicated
May 24. Our permanent existence began that day. The next Sabbath twenty joined our Sunday-school,
and the Sunday following seven more. Nothing is so acceptable as your papers. Please send oftener,
and more with pictures, as my school is largely made up of little ones."

The above are specimens of a great many letters that have been received by Miss Marsh. We should
be pleased to give still further extracts from her interesting correspondence, but lack of
space forbids. She is engaged in doing a good work, and she has the grateful appreciation of
our missionaries in the field.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDUSTRIAL LETTER FROM LE MOYNE.

DEAR FRIENDS: Thinking you would like to hear a word from "Le Moyne Home" I will pen you a
few lines. I wish you were here to see for yourself what a nice happy family we are. The industrial
classes take a good share of my time. I am much pleased with the progress the girls have made
in sewing. They have a deal of pride in doing their work nicely, and are always willing to
take it out if not well done. They have made ladies' and children's aprons, undergarments,
children's dresses, etc. Whenever they enter the sewing room with torn or ragged garments I
have them mend them the first thing, trying to teach them that a stitch in time saves nine,
and that a penny saved is the same as a penny earned--two things hard for them to learn.

The class in cooking are interested as ever in their work. Not one of the twenty-five girls
has ever failed in any article of food she has cooked. I give the girls who do the cooking
a sample to take home. It makes the mothers interested in their work. They bring frequently
to me something they have made at home. I have been very happy in my work with them.

  M. H. K.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHILDREN'S PAGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAYING 'POSSUM.

"See what a splendid 'possum I've shot, Uncle Toby. I killed him all myself."

"Killed him all yo'se'f, eh? Now, let me tole you' suffin'. Jest yo' look sharp after him.
A 'possum am a mighty skeery critter, shore's yo' bawn."

"Why, but he's dead, uncle, and how can he need any looking after?"

"Don't yo' be so shore 'bout dat ar' now, 'case dey's mighty onsartin, mighty onsartin. I mind
now wat yore bressed uncle, the parson, used ter say on that subjec', ses he: 'Toby, ef yo'
ebber wants to be a fust-rate Christian, yo' mus'n't let yer 'settin' sins fool ye, 'case dey's
jes like 'possums. Yo' t'ink dem all dead and gone fur to pester ye no moah, when all ob a
suddent heah dey all comes agin, jes' as pow'rful as ebber. Be shore yo' kills dem dead--plumb
dead--ebbery time yo' sees de leastest bit ob one stick'n up anywhars.' Dat's what he used
fur to remark, an' he war a mighty good man, chuck full ob de sperrit ob goodness."

Willie ran away and shut his treasure up in an empty cotton-shed, intending to skin it early
in the morning, as it was now supper-time and he was exceedingly hungry. But on the morrow
nothing was to be seen or heard of his prize. He hunted the place over and questioned all the
servants closely. Nothing was to be heard or seen of the missing rogue, who was probably telling
his mates of the forest of his narrow escape from being skinned alive!

Uncle Toby greeted Willie with a laugh, "I done tole yo' so. Yo' 's got to cut dere heads plumb
off. Dat am de onlst way ob bein' sartin shore. I 'clare to gracious I'se seen dem hop outen
de bery pot on de fire an' make off."

"O, Uncle Toby, that's an awful story! you know it is. But one thing I do know: I'll cut the
throat of the next 'possum I get hold of."

"An' don't yo' fo'git what I done tole ye 'bout your 'settin' sins. Dey's jes like dat ar'
'possum. Dey wants killin' ober an' ober again 'fore dey really dies."

"I should think John Salters' love of drink needed killing again. Do you know, I stumbled over
him in the woods yesterday, with a whisky-bottle lying by his side? It was too shameful!"

"Dat am true, Massa Willie. I don't reckon he tries so bery hard to kill dat ar' possum."

"But he told father that he had reformed, and wanted him to furnish him some work. Mother gave
him a lot of old clothing and things to eat, and yet there he lay, drunk as could be."

"Wall, yo' see, he was jes' like yo' was yessaday. Yo' was sartain shore dat 'possum was dead,
an' all de time he was a larfin' in his slebe an' t'inkin' how he'd make his legs fly when
he'd see a good chance, an' shore 'nuff he did. He-he."

"You needn't laugh, uncle; 'twasn't any fun to lose such a big fat fellow."

"No moah it wasn't, but ef yo' larned de lesson wat de good Lord meant to teach yo', den yo'
hasn't loss nuffin'. Jes' yo' mind 'bout dat ar."--Ruth Argyle in Well Spring.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECEIPTS FOR JUNE, 1885.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAINE, $1,187.38.

  Bangor. "A Friend," 1, and S. S. Papers, for
    Wilmington, N. C.                                      $1.00
  Biddeford. Primary Dept. Second Cong. Ch., for Share    20.00
  Falmouth. First Cong. Ch.                                 18.00
  Kennebunk. Union Ch. and Soc.                             25.58
  New Gloucester. "A Friend"                                 4.00
  Norridgewock. Mrs. N. Dale, Pkg. Sewing, for Kittrell,
    N. C.
  North Bridgeton. Cong. Sab. Sch., for Student Aid,
    Wilmington, N. C., 10; Miss Proctor's Sch., 1; C.
    C. Farnsworth, Pkg. basted work, for Wilmington,
    N. C.                                                  11.00
  North Waterford. Cong Sab. Sch.       7.00
  Portland. Seamen's Bethel Ch., 40; St. Lawrence St.
    Ch., 6.58                                               46.58
  Richmond. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                 10.00
  Skowhegan. Cong. Ch.                                      20.00
  Topsham. Pkg. basted patchwork, for Selma, Ala.
  Yarmouth. First Cong. Ch. and Soc.                        26.15
  Yarmouth. Miss Buckner and Miss Richards, for
    Wilmington, N. C.                                       5.75
  Ladies of Maine, for Missionaries, by Mrs. J. P.
    Hubbard, Treas. W. A. to A. M. A.                      992.32

NEW HAMPSHIRE, $2,323.30.

  Amherst. Cong. Ch.                                        17.85
  Dover. First Parish Ch.                                   52.88
  Exeter. Second Cong. Ch. Sab. Sch., for Student Aid,
    Talladega C.                                           25.00
  Henniker. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                              21.25
  Littleton. Mrs B. W. Kilburn                              10.00
  Nashua. Mission Circle, for Share                       20.00
  Nelson. Youngest Classes Cong. Sab. Sch., for Student
    Aid, Straight U.                                        9.12
  Northampton. Cong. Sab. Sch., for Student Aid, Fisk U.  24.23
  Pembrook. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                 30.60
  Plymouth. Cong. Ch.                                       10.87
  Tilton. Boys' Class Cong. S. S., for Student Aid,
    Straight U.                                             3.50
                                                          -------
                                                          $225.30

  LEGACIES.

  Amherst. Estate of Luther Melendy, by A. A. Rotch,
    Admr., in part                                       2,000.00
  Warren. Estate of Rev. E. Dow, by James M. Williams      100.00
                                                        ---------
                                                        $2,325.30

VERMONT, $456.15.

  Benson. Miss J. Kent                                       1.50
  Brattleboro. N. W. Goddard                                 5.00
  Brookfield. Second Ch., J. Perham                          5.00
  East Hardwick. Cong. Ch. and Soc. 12.42, "A Friend," 10   22.42
  Lyndon. First Cong. Ch.                                   20.00
  Manchester. Cong. Ch.                                     95.09
  Montpelier. Bethany Cong. Ch. and Soc.                    33.90
  Peru. Dea. A. B. Peffers, 3, Dea. Edmond Batchilder, 2     5.00
  Rutland. Cong. Ch.                                        94.71
  Saint Johnsbury. South Cong. Ch.                          10.00
  Saint Johnsbury. Mrs. O. W. Howard, Pkg. Books for
    Kittrell, N. C.
  Westfield. Cong. Ch.                                       5.50
  Ladies of Vt., by Mrs. Henry Fairbanks, for
    McIntosh, Ga.--Brookfield, Second Ch.,
    7.--Coventry, 13.50.--Enosburg, 9.--Georgia,
    9.--Greensboro, 10.--Morrisville, 8.25.--Norwich,
    14.78.--Norwich, Mrs. Stimpson, 2.--Children of
    Proctor Sab. Sch., 9.--Peacham, 23.--Richmond,
    4.61.--Richmond, Children, for Building fund,
    2.39.--Rutland, 32.--Saint Johnsbury, adl.,
    50c.--Westminster, West, 8                             153.03
  ----. "A Friend"       5.00

MASSACHUSETTS, $2,133.15.

  Andover. Abbot Academy, Teachers and Scholars             63.72
  Andover. Chapel Ch. Sab. Sch., for Student Aid, Atlanta
    U.                                                     25.00
  Ashby. Cong. Sab. Sch., for Student Aid, Atlanta U.     81.75
  Ashfield. Cong. Ch.                                       36.20
    Boston. Walnut Av. Ch. and Soc., 200.55; Homeland
    Circle, Park St. Ch., 60 for 3 Shares, 2 for
    Indian M.; Pilgrim Soc., Phillips Ch., for
    Student Aid, Fisk U., 50; "Two Friends," bal. to
    const. B. F. DEWING L. M., 10; George P. Smith,
    5.--Cambridgeport, Pilgrim Ch., 19.72.--Dorchester,
    Village Ch. and Soc., 31.80; Pilgrim Ch. and Soc.,
    20.--Roxbury Highland Ch. and Soc., 40.82; Eliot
    Ch., adl., 3; Mrs. J. M. Aldrich, for Kittrell, N.
    C., Pkg Sewing                                        442.89
  Belchertown. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                           41.00
  Buckland. Ladies, Bbl. of C., for Fisk U.
  Byfield. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                                6.00
  Campello. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                             111.68
  Concord. Trin. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                         22.30
  East Hawley. Cong. Ch.                                     5.00
  East Granville. "Y. P. Soc. of Christian Endeavor,"
    for Building Fund, Straight U.                         4.00
  Everett. Mrs. L. J. T. Burnap                              5.00
  Georgetown. Mrs. Richmond Dole                            10.00
  Greenfield. First Cong. Ch. and Soc., 10; Mrs. D. K.
    Nesbit, 2                                               12.00
  Groton. Union Cong. Ch. and Soc.                          68.30
  Holliston. Primary S. S. of Cong. Ch. for Student Aid,
    Talladega C.                                            1.20
  Housatonic. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                            47.59
  Huntington. Second Cong. Soc.                              9.26
  Hyde Park. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                37.54
  Lawrence. Trinity Cong. Ch., 23.80; So. Cong. Ch. and
    Soc., 15.04                                             38.84
  Lowell. High St. Ch. and Soc.                             53.50
  Maplewood. Miss Johnson's Sab. Sch. Class, for
    Wilmington, N. C.                                       4.00
  Medford. Ladies of Mystic Ch., for Student Aid,
    Atlanta U.                                             50.00
  Medway. Village Ch. and Soc.                             103.75
  Melrose. Ortho. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                         7.72
  Millbury. Second Cong. Ch., for Student Aid, Atlanta
    U.                                                     25.00
  Newton. "H. M. F."                                         5.00
  Newton Centre. Ladies' Miss'y Soc. of First Cong. Ch.,
    for Student Aid, Atlanta U.                           43.50
  North Amherst. Cong. Sab. Sch., for Student Aid,
    Atlanta U.                                             28.00
  Northampton. "A Friend," for Student Aid, Fisk U.       20.00
  North Andover. Cong. Ch. and Soc., to const. MISS HELEN
    E. ROACHE and MISS HELEN C. SARGENT L. M's              60.00
  Northbridge. First Ch.                                    13.50
  North Leominster. Cong. Ch.                                8.63
  Phillipston. Trowbridge Ward                               6.00
  Pittsfield. South Cong. Ch. and Soc.                      37.46
  Pittsfield. First Cong. Ch. Sab. Sch., for Student
    Aid, Fisk U.                                           15.00
  Plymouth. Amasa Holmes                                     5.00
  Quincy. Evan. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                          33.00
  Royalston. First Cong. Ch.                                44.75
  Saxonville. Edwards Cong. Ch.                             20.00
  Shelburne Falls. Three Classes Cong. Sab. Sch., for
    Indian M., Santee Agency, Neb.                          6.00
  South Framingham. Walter F. Blake and S. S. Class,
    for Student Aid, Atlanta U.                           25.00
  South Framingham. Mrs. R. L. Day, for Kittrell, N. C.    2.00
  South Hadley. Cong. Ch.                                   21.00
  Stockbridge. Miss Alice Byington, for Share             20.00
  Sturbridge. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                            35.25
  Topsfield. Cong. Ch. to const. ENOS FULLER and HARRIET
    E. PERKINS L. M's                                       56.75
  Townsend. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                              11.50
  Walpole. Orthodox Cong. Ch. and Soc.                      32.48
  West Boxford. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                           8.71
  Westminster. First Cong. Ch. and Soc.                     46.60
  West Stockbridge Village. Cong. Ch.                       25.78
  Winchendon. North Cong. Ch., adl.                          2.00
  Woburn. Ladies' Charitable Reading Soc., for Freight     2.00
  Worcester. P. L. Moen, for Indian M., Dakota           100.00
  Worcester. Piedmont Sab. Sch., 50; Young Ladies' Soc.,
    Plymouth. Ch. 35, for Student Aid, Fisk U.            85.00

  CLOTHING, ETC., RECEIVED AT BOSTON OFFICE.

  MASS.--Woburn. Ladies' Charitable Reading Soc.,
    Bbl.--Newton, A. L., Boyden, Bbl., for Macon,
    Ga.--Tewksbury, Ladies' Benev. Soc. of Cong. Ch.,
    Bbl., for Talladega C.

RHODE ISLAND, $227.42.

  Newport. United Cong. Ch.                                 54.50
  Providence. Beneficent Cong. Ch., 136.59; North Cong.
    Ch., 16.26                                             152.85
  Providence. "Friend," for Mountain White Work           10.00
  Tiverton. Amicable Cong. Ch.                              10.07

CONNECTICUT, $1,712.80.

  Bradleyville. Union Sab. Sch.                              5.00
  Canaan. ----                                               5.00
  Cromwell. Ladies of Cong. Ch., for Conn. Sch., Quitman,
    Ga.                                                    18.00
  East Haddam. First Cong. Ch. and Soc.                     53.80
  East Hampton. First Cong. Ch. and Soc., to const. WALTER
    C. CLARK L. M.                                          28.75
  East Hampton. Dea. Samuel Skinner, 10; E. C.
    Barton, 5; Mr. Abbie, 5; J. M. Starr, 2.50; D.
    Hawley Skinner, 2.50; A. Conklin, 2, for Theo.
    Dept., Talladega C.                                    27.00
  Enfield. Cong Ch., for Straight U.                      25.00
  Farmington. A. F. Williams, to const. MISS GENEVIVE
    TILLOTSON L. M.                                         30.00
  Glastonbury. Cong. Ch. and Soc., to const. MRS.
    ELIZA A. BUNCE, MRS. SARAH L. MORGAN, MISS JULIA W.
    BROADHEAD and ROBERT MOSELEY L. M's                    130.00
  Greenwich, "Three Friends," for Student Aid, Mobile,
    Ala.                                                    8.00
  Guilford. Mrs. Ruth Bartlett, 5; "A Friend in Third
    Ch.," 5                                                 10.00
  Hartford. First Ch., 336.61; Wethersfield Av. Cong.
    Ch., 5                                                 341.61
  Hebron. First Cong. Ch.                                   17.50
  Higganum. Cong. Sab. Sch., for Share                    25.00
  Higganum. Cong. Ch.                                       15.00
  Kent. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                     23.00
  Litchfield. First Cong. Ch.                               52.66
  Litchfield. Cong. Ch. Sab. Sch., for Two Shares         40.00
  Middletown. South Cong. Ch.                               33.66
  New Haven. United Ch.                                    140.90
  New London. Ch. of Christ                                 44.12
  New London. Henry Martin Miss'y Ass'n, for Student
    Aid, Straight U.                                       25.00
  New Preston Hill. Cong. Ch.                               16.00
  North Cornwall. Cong. Ch. (ad'l)                           6.00
  North Coventry. Cong. Ch.                                 40.00
  North Haven. E. Dickerman                                  2.00
  North Manchester. Second Cong. Ch.                        50.00
  Old Saybrook. Cong. Ch.                                   15.95
  Plainfield. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                2.05
  Putnam. Second Cong. Ch.                                  41.79
  Redding. Cong. Ch.                                        26.96
  Ridgebury. Woman's Miss'y Soc., for Conn. Sch.,
    Quitman, Ga.                                            2.00
  South Britain. Cong. Ch.                                  15.00
  South Windsor. Six furnished work baskets, for girls
    of graduating class, Atlanta U.
  Stafford Springs. Cong. Ch.                               21.73
  Stratford. Cong. Ch., for Indian M.                     11.25
  Thomaston. Cong. Ch.                                      65.35
  Tolland. Cong. Ch.                                        11.58
  Torrington. Young Ladies' Miss'y Soc., for Student Aid,
    Talladega C.                                           50.00
  Watertown. Cong. Sab. Sch., for Conn. Sch., Quitman,
    Ga.                                                    20.00
  West Hartford. "A Friend," for Share                    20.00
  Wethersfield. Ladies of Cong. Ch., for Conn. Sch.,
    Quitman, Ga.                                           20.00
  Williamsville. Cong. Ch.                                   8.00
  Windsor Locks. Ladies' Miss'y Soc., by Mrs. Chas. H.
    Coye, for Conn. Sch., Quitman, Ga.                    18.00
  Wolcott. Cong. Ch., Ladies, 5; Y. P. S. of Christian
    Endeavor, 5, for Conn. Sch., Quitman, Ga.             10.00
  Woodbury. Ladies' Miss'y Soc., for Student Aid Endowment
    Fund, Fisk U.                                          13.00
  Woodstock. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                             27.14
  ----. "A Friend"                                         100.00

NEW YORK, $616.88.

  Brooklyn. Central Cong. Sab. Sch., for Indian M.,
    Santee Agency, Neb.                                    37.50
  Buffalo. Mrs. Wm. G. Bancroft, 50, for Tillotson C
    & N. Inst., and to const. MRS. RALPH JOHNSON L. M.;
    Young People's Ass'n of First Cong. Ch., 5              55.00
  Clifton Park. "A Friend"                                   3.00
  Comstocks. Russell Ranney                                 10.00
  De Kalb. First Cong. Ch.                                   3.75
  Flushing. First Cong. Ch. Sab. Sch., for Missionary,
    Atlanta, Ga.                                           40.00
  Gloversville. Ladies, for Missionary, Tougaloo, Miss.,
    by Mrs. L. H. Cobb, Treas., W. H. M. U.                  6.67
  Le Roy. Miss Delia A. Phillips, for Student Aid, Atlanta
    U.                                                     10.00
  Lysander. Cong. Ch.                                       19.00
  Millville. Cong. S. S., Infant Class, 1, Youths' Class,
    1                                                        2.00
  New York. S. T. Gordon, for Student Aid, Fisk U.       200.00
  New York. Broadway Tabernacle (Pledge for 1884)          100.00
  New York. Broadway Tabernacle Sab. Sch., for Indian M.,
    Fort Berthold, Dak.                                    50.00
  Oswego. Mrs. L. H. Chase                                  10.00
  Pekin. Abigail Peck                                       15.00
  Rushville Cong. Ch.                                       18.50
  Sandy Creek. Cong. Ch.                                     4.00
  South Hermon. Cong. Ch.                                    2.00
  West Winfield. Cong. Ch., to const. MRS. H. L. BRACE
    L. M.                                                   30.46

NEW JERSEY, $24.00.

  Montclair. Mrs. Pratt's S. S. Class, for Student Aid,
   Talladega C.                                             4.00
  Summit. Central Presb. Ch.                                20.00

PENNSYLVANIA, $11.00.

  Allegheny City. W. H. M. Soc. of Plymouth Ch., for
    Missionary, Atlanta, Ga., by Mrs. Wm. Clayton,
    Treas. O. W. H. M. U.                                    5.00
  Ridgway. First Cong. Ch.                                   6.00

OHIO, $817.47.

  Akron. Cong. Ch.                                          76.82
  Akron. Cong. Ch., for Straight U., 84 (less 23 ack.
    in June number from "Friends in Ohio," by Mrs. A.
    McDougall)                                              61.00
  Ashtabula. First Cong. Ch.                                34.49
  Atwater. Cong. Ch. and Soc., to const. ANTHONY REED
     L. M.                                                  29.03
  Chagrin Falls. "Earnest Workers," 4 for Orphan Fund,
     1 for Freight, for Tougaloo, Miss.                    5.00
  Cincinnati. A. M. Warner                                   5.00
  Columbus. First Cong. Ch., 230.23; North Cong. Ch. Sab.
    Sch., 5                                                235.23
  Elyria. First Cong. Ch., 106.43, and Sab. Sch., 40;
    N. B. Gates, 2                                         148.43
  Lexington. Cong. Ch., 4.85; "C. C.," 10                   14.85
  Madison. Mrs. H. B. Fraser                                25.00
  Mansfield. Woman's Benev. Soc., for Missionary,
    Atlanta, Ga., by Mrs. Wm. Clayton, Treas. O.
    W. H. M. U.                                             20.00
  Mount Vernon. Cong. Ch.                                   67.62
  Mount Vernon. Union Meeting, 50, for Straight U.,
    by Mrs. A. McDougall, incorrectly ack. in June
    number from Akron, Ohio
  Oberlin. O. W. H. M. U.                                   75.00
  Wellington. Edward West                                   20.00

INDIANA, 50c.

  Frankfort. ----                                             .50

ILLINOIS, $2,174.72.

  Bondville. Mrs. E. W. Goodnow                              5.00
  Chebanse. "A Friend," for Woman's Work                   3.00
  Chicago. Hon. E. W. Blatchford, for Atlanta U.         300.00
  Chicago. U. P. Cong. Ch., 158.44; "A Friend," 10         168.44
  Chicago. Ladies' Aid Soc. of Plym. Cong. Ch., for
    Missionary, Fort Sully, Dak.                           50.00
  Chicago. Ladies' Soc. New Eng. Cong. Ch., for
    Missionary, Mobile, Ala.                               35.00
  Earlville. "J. A. D."                                    100.00
  Evanston. Ladies of Cong. Ch., for Miss'y, Austin,
    Texas                                                  30.00
  Galva. By Miss Lizzy Boynton, 56; Woman's Miss'y
    Soc., 29.20, for Student Aid, Talladega C.            85.20
  Galva. Cong. Ch.                                          13.77
  Hamilton. Mrs. L. H. Safford, 2.50; Mrs. S. J.
    Cate, 1.25; Miss A. L. Safford, 1.25                     5.00
  Harvard. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                   3.25
  Hinsdale. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                 10.00
  Lockport. First Cong. Ch.                                  6.00
  Mendon. Mrs. J. Fowler, for Little Rock, Ark.,
    and to const. JOHN BORTZ, HENRY WYATT and HENRY
    COCHRAN L. M's                                         100.00
  Oak Park. First Cong. Ch.                                129.04
  Paris. C. V. Newton                                        1.50
  Payson. Cong. Ch.                                         15.00
  Payson. Miss Faith Ann Spencer (blind), 50 cushions
    and 2 shoe bags, for students' rooms.
  Princeton. Cong. Ch., 42.29; Mrs. P. B. Corss, 12         54.29
  Rockford. Lewis S. Swezey                              1,000.00
  Sparta. Bryce Crawford, 5; P. B. Gault, 2; R. Hood,
    1; J. Hood, 1; J. Alexander, 1                          10.00
  Udina. Cong. Ch.                                           9.78
  Wilmette. Cong. Ch.                                       40.45

MICHIGAN, $336.73.

  Alamo. Julius Hackley                                     20.00
  Benzonia. Cong. Ch., 44.92, to const. REV. C. W.
    CARRICK L. M.; Joseph S. Fisher, 10                     54.92
  Detroit. First Cong. Ch., Philo Parsons, 10; Miss
    M. L. Miller, 10; Mrs. J. K. Burnham, 5; C. I.
    Walker, 5, for Straight U., by Mrs. A. McDougall      30.00
  Flint. "Friends," Bbl. of C., for Fisk U.
  Hancock. Cong. Ch.                                       120.29
  Hancock. Ladies' Miss'y Soc., First Cong. Ch., for
    Student Aid, Talladega C.                              25.00
  Hudson. First Cong. Ch.                                   13.50
  Lansing. Mrs. M. B. Kinsley, for Kittrell, N. C.         2.00
  Ludington. Cong. Ch.                                      30.00
  Port Huron. First Cong. Ch., for Straight U., by
    Mrs. A. McDougall                                       23.02
  Saint Clair. Collection, by Mrs. A. McDougall, for
    Straight U.                                            18.00

IOWA, $329.09.

  Anamosa. Woman's Freedmen's Soc. First Cong. Ch.,
    for Straight U.                                       20.00
  Cedar Rapids. Mrs. R. D. Stephens, for Student
    Aid, Straight U.                                      110.00
  Dubuque. Young People's Benev. Soc., for Student
    Aid, Talladega C.                                      25.00
  Garwin. Talmon Dewey                                       2.50
  Glenwood. Cong. Ch.                                       24.15
  Hampton. Cong. Ch.                                         5.49
  Miles. By Mrs. S. A. Green, Treas.                         8.00
  New Hampton. Cong. Ch.                                     5.20
  Osage. Cong. Ch. Miss'y Soc.                               7.50
  Ottumwa. Second Cong. Ch.                                   .60
  Winthrop. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                  3.75
  Ladies of Iowa, by Mrs. Geo. W. Reynolds, for
    Missionary, New Orleans, La.--Algona,
    1.70.--Grinnell, 3.50.--Iowa City, 22.50.--Lyons,
    10.--Maquoketa, 10.--Marion, 6.25.--Mason City,
    3.--Mitchell, 5.--Stacyville, 4.30. Stuart, 50c         66.75
  Ladies of Iowa, by Ella E. Marsh, for Missionary,
    New Orleans, La.--Ames, 5.70.--Fairfield,
    8.25.--Marshalltown, 5.--Oskaloosa, 18.--Red Oak,
    5.--Rock Rapids, 5.--Toledo, 3.20                       50.15

WISCONSIN, $195.21.

  Appleton. First Cong. Ch.                                 42.70
  Arena. Ladies' Soc. of Cong. Ch., for Missionary,
    Austin, Tex.                                            1.77
  Eau Claire. "Cheerful Givers," Cong. Ch.                  18.80
  Fort Atkinson. Mrs. C. B. Snell                           10.00
  Fulton. Cong. Ch. Sab. Sch.                                7.50
  Green Bay. Ladies' Soc. of Presb. Ch., for
    Missionary, Austin, Tex.                               20.00
  Milwaukee. Young Ladies' Bible Class, Grand Ave.
    Cong. Ch., for Missionary, Austin, Tex.               15.00
  River Falls. Ladies' Miss'y Soc., by Miss Calista
    Andrews, for Share                                    20.00
  Stevens Point. Mrs. Faith H. Montague, for
    Missionary, Austin, Tex.                                5.00
  Watertown. Cong. Ch.                                       8.69
  Waukesha. First Cong. Ch.                                 24.00
  West Salem. Cong. Ch.                                     12.70
  West Salem. Ladies' Soc. Cong. Ch., for Missionary,
    Austin, Tex.                                            9.05

MINNESOTA, $107.58.

  Austin. Mrs. S. C. Bacon                                  10.00
  Fergus Falls. Cong. Ch.                                    7.00
  Minneapolis. Plymouth Ch., 27.70; "The Open Door
    Ch.," 13.10; and Sab. Sch., 3.78; Vine Cong. Ch., 6     50.58
  Northfield. Woman's Miss'y Soc., by Myra A. Jeftes,
    for Two Shares                                        40.00

KANSAS, $7.28.

  Topeka. Tuition                                            7.28

COLORADO, $37.66.

  Colorado Springs. Cong. Ch.                               37.66

DAKOTA, $11.56.

  Huron. Woman's Miss'y Soc., for Indian M., Santee
    Agency, Neb.                                            2.00
  Yankton. Woman's Miss'y Soc., for Indian M.              9.56

CALIFORNIA, $12.00.

  National City. Theron Parsons                             10.00
  San Diego. Fanny E. Fish                                   2.00

OREGON, $2.50.

  Astoria. First Cong. Ch.                                   2.50

WASHINGTON TERRITORY, $6.70.

  Tacoma. First Cong. Ch.                                    6.70

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, $120.00.

  Washington. "A Friend," for Howard U.                  100.00
  Washington. Lincoln Mem. Ch. 10; L. M. Sab. Sch. and
    Woman's Miss'y Soc. for Indian M., 10                 20.00

KENTUCKY, $125.10

  Lexington. Tuition, 56.48; Rent, 4.62                     61.10
  Williamsburg. Tuition                                     64.00

TENNESSEE, $687.47.

  Grandview. Tuition                                        34.15
  Jellico. Tuition                                          18.00
  Knoxville. Cong. Ch.                                      12.00
  Memphis. Tuition                                         212.30
  Nashville. Tuition, 366.33; Jackson St. Cong. Ch., 5     371.33
  Pleasant Hill. Tuition                                    20.26
  Pomona. Tuition, 14.43; Cong. Ch., 5.                     19.43

NORTH CAROLINA, $261.58.

  Hillsborough. Tuition                                      6.05
  Kittrell. Tuition                                         30.18
  Wilmington. Tuition, 207.10; Cong. Ch., 10; By Miss
    Warner, 3.50; By Miss Vinton, 1.75; By Miss Fitts,
    1; By Miss Thayer, 1; By Miss Farrington, 1            225.35

SOUTH CAROLINA, $353.00.

  Charleston. Tuition, 288; Prof. W. M. Bristoll, 50;
    Cong. Ch., 15                                          353.00

GEORGIA, $616.62.

  Atlanta. Storrs Sch., Tuition                            251.19
  Macon. Tuition, 158.86; Rent, 4; Cong. Ch., 10           172.86
  McIntosh. Tuition                                         17.67
  McIntosh. Ladies' Miss'y Soc., for Indian M., Fort
    Berthold, Dak.                                          5.00
  Savannah. Tuition, 138; Rev. Dana Sherrill, 25;
    First Cong. Ch., 6.90                                  169.90

ALABAMA, $428.33.

  Anniston. Ladies' Miss'y Soc., for Indian M.             4.00
  Athens. Tuition, 115.10; Trinity Sch., proceeds of
    Concert, 18.65                                         133.75
  Marion. Cong. Ch., 10.35; Rev. and Mrs. A. W. Curtiss,
    7.33                                                    17.68
  Mobile. Tuition                                          153.00
  Montgomery. Cong. Ch.                                     15.00
  Selma. Cong. Ch.                                          18.20
  Talladega. Tuition, 83.70; Primary Room, Talladega
    C., by Mrs. Mary P. Bloss, 1                            84.70
  Talladega. Henry Parsons, for Student Aid Talladega C.   2.00

MISSISSIPPI, $42.20.

  Tougaloo. REV. WM. N. THRALL, 30, to const. himself
    L. M.; Tuition, 12.20                                   42.20

LOUISIANA, $511.00.

    New Orleans. Tuition, 506; Ladies' Miss'y Soc.,
    Central Ch., 5                                         511.00

TEXAS, $234.85.

  Austin. Tuition                                          228.00
  Austin. Ladies' Miss. Soc., 4.70; Mission Sab.
    Sch., 2.15, for Indian M., Fort Berthold, Dak.         6.85

INCOMES, $2,056.25.

  Avery Fund, for Mendi M.                               300.00
  De Forest Fund, for Pres. Chair, Talladega C.          375.00
  Graves Scholarship Fund, for Talladega C.              125.00
  Haley Scholarship Fund, for Fisk U.                     50.00
  Hammond Fund, for Straight U.                          125.00
  Hastings School Fund, for Atlanta U.                     6.25
  Howard Theo. Fund, for Howard U.                       725.00
  Le Moyne Fund, for Memphis, Tenn.                      175.00
  Tuthill King Fund, 125 for Atlanta U.; 50 for Berea
    C.                                                    175.00

ENGLAND, $30.00.

  London. Mrs. Luty, 25; "A Friend," 5, by J. F.
    Louden, for Student Aid, Fisk U.                      30.00
                                                      -----------
  Total for June                                       $18,199.48
  Total from Oct. 1 to June 30                         176,956.65
                                                      ===========

FOR THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY.

  Subscriptions for June                                   $42.15
  Previously acknowledged                                1,119.08
                                                        ---------
  Total                                                 $1,161.23
                                                        =========

  H. W. HUBBARD, Treas.,
  56 Reade St., N. Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

LUNDBORG'S PERFUMES.

  Lundborg's Perfume, Edenia.
  Lundborg's Perfume, Marêchal Niel Rose.
  Lundborg's Perfume, Alpine Violet.
  Lundborg's Perfume, Lily of the Valley.

  LUNDBORG'S RHENISH COLOGNE.

  A box containing Samples of all the above five articles prepaid
  to your nearest Railroad Express Office (which should be named)
  for Fifty Cents--Money Order, Stamps or Currency.

Address: YOUNG, LADD & COFFIN, 24 Barclay St., New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

HORSFORD'S

ACID PHOSPHATE.

(LIQUID.)

FOR DYSPEPSIA, MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION, NERVOUSNESS, DIMINISHED VITALITY, URINARY DIFFICULTIES,
ETC.

  PREPARED ACCORDING TO THE DIRECTION OF
  Prof. E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.

There seems to be no difference of opinion in high medical authority of the value of phosphoric
acid, and no preparation has ever been offered to the public which seems to so happily meet
the general want as this.

It is not nauseous, but agreeable to the taste.

No danger can attend its use.

Its action will harmonize with such stimulants as are necessary to take.

It makes a delicious drink with water and sugar only.

Prices reasonable. Pamphlet giving further particulars mailed free on application.

  MANUFACTURED BY THE
  RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS,
  Providence, R. I.,
  AND FOR SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRADFORD ACADEMY,

AN INSTITUTION FOR THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF YOUNG WOMEN.

  BRADFORD, MASS.
  INCORPORATED 1804.

CALENDAR.

The year 1884-85 closes with public anniversary, June 17, 1885.

THE YEAR 1885-86.

  First Term opens,     Tuesday, September 8, 1885.
  Second Term opens,     Tuesday, December 8, 1885.
  Third Term opens,        Tuesday, March 23, 1886.

  First Term closes,   Wednesday, December 2, 1885.
  Second Term closes,        Friday, March 5, 1886.
  Third Term closes,      Wednesday, June 23, 1886.

  Recess at Christmas time.

The academic year closes on the last Wednesday but one in June, and consists of three terms.

The year 1885-86 will commence on the second Tuesday in September.

EXPENSES.

  BOARD, including washing, fuel and lights.
    First Term                                      $80.00
    Second Term                                      90.00
    Third Term                                       90.00

  TUITION, including English branches, Latin
    and French, Greek or German, and Vocal Music
    in Classes ($20 per term), for the year          60.00
                                                   -------
      Total expenses for the year                  $320.00

Special terms to daughters of Missionaries and Clergymen.

No extras except the following:--

TUITION IN MUSIC AND ART: Instruction on Piano, per term, $20.00 to $40.00. Use of Piano one
hour a day, per term, $3.00. Instruction in Art, including Linear and Perspective Drawing,
and Painting, according to the ability of the pupil, per term, $16.00.

Application may be made to MISS ANNIE E. JOHNSON, Principal. In case of failure after an engagement
has been made, information should be given immediately. Inquiries in regard to expenses may
be made of

  J. D. KINGSBURY, TREASURER.

