But there is another cry that suddenly resounds through the stillness, a long-drawn, mysterious
utterance, passing drearily, difficult to locate, more difficult to name--one of those sounds
by which Nature at times reaches to the dark places of our spirit and terrifies us with vague
dread of the unknown. Is it the wail of an owl or other bird of the night? It pervades the
air wildly and lingeringly. Those who come late to the ford and hear this sudden strange call
draw rein and turn backward; it is better to drive the weary distance to the bridge than to
brave a crossing when this warning is abroad. Those who are familiar with this country-side,
with its dim lingerings of Celtic tradition, its strange borderland of myth and reality, know
the meaning of the cry in their hearts, though, perhaps, they decline to give mention to it
with their lips. They have been told in their childhood of a man who once lived in these parts,
whose life was stained by many black deeds, and lightened by a single good one. He had been
a smuggler, a wrecker, a pirate; his hand was red with blood, his soul dark with the soil of
crime. One night a cottager lay dying, and was praying that a priest might be fetched to his
bedside. Moved by a rare impulse of pity, the man of many sins set forth to cross the Gannel
and to bring the priest from a religious house beyond. But the time for fording had passed;
the river was running swiftly, and waves were leaping hungrily about the usual track of passage.
Yet it meant a long delay to go round by the bridge, and the occasion was pressing. Merging
all his virtue into one brave deed, the man plunged into the boiling torrent, and never reached
the other side. In consideration of this last action the doom that would otherwise have been
his was mitigated into a nobler penance. He is permitted to haunt the shores, and by his cries
to warn passengers when the ford has become perilous. So does he save others and work out his
own salvation.

Immediately beyond the Warren, with its old-world tumuli, is Fistral Bay, the eastern point
of which is Towan Head, giving Newquay its finest promenade. Here, just beyond the golf-links,
are two of the largest hotels, and beyond these is the lifeboat-house, with its slip for launching.
Beneath are caverns and natural tunnels once devoted to smuggling; while a memorial of old
Newquay's other industry exists in the quaint Huer's House, on the eastern point of the headland.
It was from this look-out that the hue-and-cry was raised when the shoals of pilchards were
sighted; a man being on watch here, to give signal to the fishing-boats. But the pilchards
do not come so far eastward now; the house remains to remind Newquay, now in the day of its
pride and fashion, that it was a humble lowly fishing village. Carew, three centuries since,
spoke of "newe Kaye, a place in the north coast of Pydar Hundred, so called because in former
times the neighbours attempted to supplie the defect of nature by art, in making there a kay
for the rode of shipping."

There is usually some amount of charm about a harbour; but neither the harbour nor even the
sea is visible from the streets of Newquay, except in rare glimpses. Modern Newquay seems to
have striven to render itself uninteresting; Mr. Hind says that it is the ugliest though the
most popular coast-town in Cornwall. Of course, this only applies to the town, not to its situation,
its fine cliffs and broad sands; Newquay townsfolk might with a little foresight have made
their leading street into a most attractive promenade by leaving one side open towards the
sea. As it is, the streets are resorted to for shopping and business purposes, and for nothing
else; they have nothing else to offer. Commonplace on this plateau above the cliffs, the coast
becomes glorious below, eaten out as it is into grand caves and hollows, with alluring stretches
of weeded beach and firm shell-sand. Fistral Beach and the bracing headlands have their own
special charm; but the popular beach at Newquay is that which reaches towards St. Columb and
Trevalgue Head. Visitors find particular delight in the Island, a mass of rock that is really
insular at high water, and the numerous caves are a constant temptation to young and old explorers.
There are barrows also above the Crigga Rocks, linking modern Newquay with a far-forgotten
past; and at St. Columb Porth, generally called Porth for short, are traces of submerged forest.
Trevalgue Head is practically an island, joined to the mainland by a narrow bridge; and in
tempestuous weather this is a grand spot for noting the force and sublimity of Cornish seas.
The Banqueting Hall and Cathedral Cavern are especially fine caves here. Of course, care must
always be taken to watch the tides, or trouble may be expected. About a mile inland from the
Porth is the village of St. Columb Minor, the mother-parish of Newquay; farther inland still
is St. Columb Major, and both churches appear to be dedicated to a maiden Columba, who suffered
martyrdom in Gaul. We must not think of the great Irish Columba here. The district has long
been a chief centre of Cornwall's popular game of hurling, which still enjoys an annual revival,
sometimes in the village itself, sometimes on the sands reaching towards Newquay. The ball
used on these occasions is a little smaller than a cricket-ball, and has a coating of silver;
it is inscribed with the verse--

    "St. Columb Major and Minor,
      Do your best;
    In one of your parishes
      I must rest."

The sides are not now confined to the parishes, but usually consist of "Married versus Single,"
or "Townsmen versus Countrymen." The ball is thrown up and hurled from hand to hand, no kicking
being allowed; and the game is won by him who reaches the opponents' goal with it. From Carew's
account of the game as formerly played, we may judge that a very extensive ground was used;
he speaks of the players as taking "their way over hills, dales, hedges, ditches--yea, and
thorou bushes, briers, mires, plashes, and rivers whatsoever--so as you shall sometimes see
twenty or thirty lie tugging together in the water, scrambling and scratching for the ball.
A play verily both rude and rough." A writer of half a century since gives this description:
"A ball about the size of a cricket-ball, formed of cork or light wood and covered with silver,
was hurled into the air, midway between the goals. Both parties immediately rushed towards
it, each striving to seize and carry it to his own goal. In this contest, when any individual
having possession of the ball found himself overpowered or outrun by his opponents, he hurled
it to one of his own side, if near enough, or if not into some pool, ditch, furze, brake, garden,
house, or other place of concealment, to prevent his adversaries getting hold of it before
his own company could arrive." It is clear that hurling somewhat resembled football as anciently
played in England and Scotland between parish and parish. In old times the ball was provided
by the corporations of the different localities; we read in the St. Ives parish accounts for
the year 1639: "Item for a Silver Bole that was brought to towne, 6s. 6d." On such balls was
often inscribed the Cornish motto, Guare teag yu guare wheag--"Fair play is good play." A curious
method of forming sides, in the past, was to set all the Toms, Williams, and Johns on one side,
while their neighbours of other Christian names were ranged against them; from whence came
the rhyme--

    "Toms, Wills and Jans,
    Take off all on the sands."

But even St. Ives seems now to have abandoned the old sport, and it is limited to these parishes
of St. Columb. Cornwall now devotes itself, and very successfully, to our customary football.

The two Columb churches are both interesting, that of St. Columb Minor having the second highest
tower in Cornwall. Porth Island is really a portion of the Glendorgal estate, the home of the
late Sir Richard Tangye, who did so much for the preservation of local antiquities. Just beyond
is Flory Island (Flory being clearly a corruption of Phillory), sometimes known as Black Humphrey's
Isle; Black Humphrey was one of the pirate-smugglers whose tales are common around this coast.

Beyond the northern end of Watergate Bay we come to Mawgan Porth, and a mile beyond this are
the famous Bedruthan Steps. Both places, but especially the Steps, afford a very favourite
excursion from Newquay, seven miles distant; and whether the journey is performed on foot,
or by cycle, motor-car or carriage, it is full of interest and beauty. It is best to come during
the ebb of a spring tide, when the coves and caves may safely be explored; at other times there
is grave peril. The caverns at Mawgan Porth are remarkably fine, and the grandly wild stretch
of beach can hardly be spoken of with too great enthusiasm. The coast is as pitiless as it
is beautiful, and many relics of wreckage are often washed ashore; after heavy storms the crags
and caves are still searched for jetsam. It may be noted that those who do not wish to examine
the caves, but who desire to see massive waves breaking on a magnificent coast-line, should
come when the tide is nearing the full after prolonged westerly winds; they will see something
that is even grander than high-arched dusky caverns and glimmering rock-tunnels. The beach
at Bedruthan has nothing specially to distinguish it from those at Newquay and Porth, with
the exception of the isolated masses of rock and boulder that in some sense cause it to resemble
Kynance. Several of these have been given fanciful names--such names being always dear to the
average tourist; one of these is the striking Queen Bess rock, and another is the Good Samaritan.
This last is so named, not very aptly, because it proved the destruction of an East Indiaman,
the Good Samaritan, many years since; but as it is an ill wind that blows no one any good,
so it is certain that the wreck of this richly-cargoed vessel provided the womanfolk of the
district with fine silks and satins for many years after. We can thus understand the point
of the local saying, "It is time for a Good Samaritan to come." The coast-people's attitude
towards wrecks has never been one of ingratitude--except when Preventive officers proved too
wary. Diggory Island, a little to the north, has two natural arches, making a fine spectacle
at floodtide.

