Longman's English Classics

LINCOLN'S INAUGURALS, ADDRESSES AND LETTERS

(SELECTIONS)

EDITED

WITH AN INTRODUCTORY MEMOIR AND NOTES

BY

DANIEL KILHAM DODGE, PH.D.

PROFESSOR OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE AT THE

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.

FOURTH AVENUE & 30TH STREET, NEW YORK

PRAIRIE AVENUE & 25TH STREET, CHICAGO

Copyright, 1910,

BY

LONGMANS GREEN AND CO.

FIRST EDITION, JULY, 1910

REPRINTED, JUNE, 1913, MAY, 1915, MARCH, 1917

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE--LINCOLN

INAUGURALS, ADDRESSES, AND LETTERS

  Address to the People of Sangamon County, March 9, 1832
  The Perpetuation of our Political Institutions, January 27, 1837
  Speech at Springfield, Illinois, June 16, 1858
  Second Joint Debate at Freeport, August 27, 1858
  The Cooper Institute Address, Monday, February 27, 1860
  Farewell Address at Springfield, Illinois, February 12, 1861
  Farewell Address at Springfield, Illinois, February 11, 1861
  Address in Independence Hall, Philadelphia, February 22, 1861
  First Inaugural Address, March 4, 1861
  Response to Serenade, March 4, 1861
  Letter to Colonel Ellsworth's Parents, May 25, 1861
  Letter to Horace Greeley, August 22, 1862
  Extract from the Second Annual Message to Congress, December 1, 1862
  The Emancipation Proclamation, January 1, 1863
  Thanksgiving Proclamation, July 15, 1863
  Letter to J. C. Conkling, August 26, 1863
  Gettysburg Address, November 19, 1863
  Letter to Mrs. Bixby, November 21, 1864
  Second Inaugural Address, March 4, 1865
  Last Public Address, April 11, 1865

APPENDIX.   Autobiography, December 20, 1859

NOTES

INTRODUCTION

The facts of Lincoln's early life are best stated in his own words, communicated in 1859[see
Appendix] to Mr. J. W. Fell, of Bloomington, Illinois.  Unlike many men who have risen from
humble surroundings, Lincoln never boasted of his wonderful struggle with poverty.  His nature
had no room for the false pride of a Mr. Bounderby, even though the facts warranted the claim.
Indeed, he seldom mentioned his early life at all.  On one occasion he referred to it as "the
short and simple annals of the poor."  Lincoln himself did not in any way base his claims to
public recognition upon the fact that he was born in a log cabin and that he had split rails
in his youth, although, on the other hand, he was not ashamed of the facts.  More, perhaps,
than any other man of his time he believed and by his actions realized the truth of Burns'
saying, "The man's the goud, for a' that."  The real lesson to be drawn from Lincoln's life
is that under any conditions real success is to be won by intelligent, unwavering effort, the
degree of success being determined by the ability and character of the individual.  Still less
profitable is the attempt to contrast the success of Lincoln with that of Washington, or Jefferson
or of any other American whose early circumstances were more favorable than Lincoln's.  In
each case success has been worthily won, and we Americans of the present generation should
rejoice that our country has produced so many great men.  True patriotism does not consist
in the recognition of only one type of Americanism, but rather in the grateful acceptance of
every service that advances the fortunes and raises the reputation of the republic.  Peculiar
interest attaches to the character of Lincoln's early reading and especially to the small number
of books that were accessible to him.  In these days of cheap and plentiful literature it is
hard for us to realize the conditions in pioneer Kentucky and Indiana, where half a dozen volumes
formed a family library and even newspapers were few and far between.  There was no room for
mental dissipation, and the few precious volumes that could be obtained were read and re-read
until their contents were fully mastered.  When Sir Henry Irving was asked to prepare a list
of the hundred best books he replied, "Before a hundred books, commend me to the reading of
two, the Bible and Shakespeare."  Fortunately these two classics came at an early age within
the reach of Lincoln and the frequency with which he quotes from both at all periods of his
career, both in his writings and in his conversation, shows that he had made good use of them.
The boy Lincoln not only read books, he made copious extracts from them, often using a smooth
shingle in the absence of paper and depending upon the uncertain light of the log fire in his
father's cabin.  Such use of books makes for intellectual growth, and much of Lincoln's later
success as a writer can be referred back to this careful method of reading.

Lincoln's later reading shows considerable variety within certain limits.  He himself once
remarked that he liked "little sad songs." Among, his special favorites in this class of poetry
were "Ben Bolt," "The Lament of the Irish Emigrant," Holmes' "The Last Leaf," and Charles Mackay's
"The Enquiry."  The poem from which he most frequently quoted and which seems to have impressed
him most was, "Oh, Why Should the Spirit of Mortal be Proud?"  His own marked tendency to melancholy,
which is reflected in his face, seemed to respond to appeals of this sort.  Among his favorite
poets besides Shakespeare were Burns, Longfellow, Hood, and Lowell.  Many of the poems in his
personal anthology were picked from the poets' corner of newspapers, and it was in this way
that he became acquainted with Longfellow.  Lincoln was especially fond of humorous writings,
both in prose and verse, a taste that is closely connected with his lifelong fondness for funny
stories. His favorite humorous writer during the presidential period was Petroleum V. Nasby
(David P. Locke), from whose letters he frequently read to more or less sympathetic listeners.
It was eminently characteristic of Lincoln that the presentation to the Cabinet of the Emancipation
Proclamation was prefaced by the reading of the latest Nasby letter.

Lincoln's statement in the Autobiography that he had picked up the little advance he had made
upon his early education, or rather lack of education, is altogether too modest.  It is known
that after his term in Congress he studied and mastered geometry; and, like Washington, he
early became a successful surveyor.  His study of the law, too, was characteristically thorough,
and his skill in debate, in which he had no superior, was the result of careful preparation.
During the presidential period Lincoln gave evidence of critical ability that is little short
of marvellous in a man whose schooling amounted to less than a year.  In a letter to the actor
Hackett and in several conversations he analyzed passages from "Hamlet," "Macbeth," and other
plays with an insight and sympathy that have rarely been surpassed even by eminent literary
critics.

At an early age Lincoln's interest was aroused in public speaking and he soon began to exercise
himself in this direction and to attend meetings addressed by those skilled in the art of oratory.
Many stories are told of his local reputation as a speaker and story-teller even before he
moved to Illinois, much of his success then as in later life being due to the singular charm
of his personality.  Lincoln never overcame a certain awkwardness, almost uncouthness of appearance,
and he never acquired the finer arts of oratory for which his rival Douglas was so conspicuous.
But in spite of these physical difficulties he was acknowledged by Douglas to be the man whom
he most feared in debate; and Lincoln was able to sway the critical, unfamiliar audience assembled
in Cooper Union as readily as the ruder crowds gathered about the Illinois stump.

On the subject of Lincoln's religious belief, about which such varying opinions have been held,
it is sufficient to state that, although he was not a member of any religious body, he had
a firm conviction of the protecting power of Providence and the efficacy of special prayer.
This latter characteristic seems to have been especially developed during the presidential
period.  Both in his proclamations and in many private interviews and communications he expresses
himself clearly and emphatically upon this subject.  It is probable, too, that Lincoln read
more deeply and more frequently in the Bible during the storm and stress of the Civil War than
at any other period of his life.  There seems to be no authority for the statement sometimes
made that after the death of his son Willie, Lincoln showed a tendency to believe in the doctrines
of spiritualism.  He was not free, however, from a belief in the significance of dreams as
portending important events.  He was also not a little of a fatalist, as he himself once stated
to his friend Arnold.

Perhaps the most striking characteristic of Lincoln's personality apart from his honesty and
sincerity was his perfect simplicity and naturalness.  Frederick A. Douglass, the great leader
of the colored race, once remarked that President Lincoln was the only white man that he had
ever met who never suggested by his manner a sense of superiority.  Not that Lincoln was lacking
in personal dignity. Neither as a practising lawyer nor as President of the United States,
would he permit anyone to take what he regarded as liberties with him. But, on the other hand,
he did not allow his elevated position to change his personal relations.  His old Illinois
friends found in the White House the same cordial welcome and simple manners to which they
had been accustomed in the pleasant home at Springfield.

During the first few weeks of the administration it was believed by many persons, including
Mr. Seward himself, that President Lincoln would be greatly influenced in his policy by the
superior experience in public affairs of his Secretary of State.  Mr. Seward even went so far
as to draw up a plan of action, which he submitted to his chief. Lincoln soon showed, however,
that he was not a follower, but a leader of men, beneath whose good nature and kindly spirit
was a power of initiative that has rarely been equalled among the statesmen of the world. 
Even the dictatorial Secretary of War found it necessary to yield to the President on all points
that the latter regarded as being fundamental.  Few other presidents have been so bitterly
attacked and so cruelly misrepresented as Lincoln, but nothing could turn him from his purpose
when that was once formed.  Like the wise man that he was, Lincoln was always ready to listen
to the suggestions of others, but the conclusion finally reached by him was always his own.
He applied to questions of state the same methods of careful, impartial inquiry that had served
him so well as a lawyer on the Illinois circuit, and if, being human, he did not always avoid
committing errors, he never acted from impulse or prejudice.  Lincoln was a strong leader,
but he was at the same time a wise leader.

Turning now from the man to his works, we note first that the development of Lincoln's style
was slow.  One might almost be tempted to say that Lincoln developed several different styles
in succession. This, however, is hardly true, for in spite of the numerous marked changes and
improvements in Lincoln's manner of writing, certain fundamental qualities remained, the real
expression of his personality, that is, the real style of Lincoln.  From the beginning to the
end we find an effort to say something and to say it in as clear a manner as possible, an effort
without which there can be no real success in writing.  After a practice in public speaking
of over thirty years Lincoln as President could still say: "I believe I shall never be old
enough to speak without embarrassment when I have nothing to talk about."

The first specimen of Lincoln's writings that has been preserved is a communication to the
voters of Sangamon County in 1832, when Lincoln was for the first time a candidate for the
State legislature.  It is significant of Lincoln's imperfect command of English at that time
that "some of the grammatical errors" were corrected by a friend before the circular was issued.
Although this circumstance makes it impossible for us to judge exactly what his style was at
this period, we may be sure that the changes were comparatively slight and that the general
form at least was Lincoln's.  The question naturally arises whether there is anything in this
first specimen of Lincoln's writing that suggests, however remotely, the Gettysburg Address
and the Second Inaugural.  A little study will discover suggestions at least of the later manner,
just as in the uncouth and awkward young candidate for the Illinois State Legislature, we can
note many traits, intellectual and moral, that distinguish the mature and well-poised statesman
of thirty years later.  It is the same man, but developed and strengthened, it is the same
style, strengthened and refined.  If Nicolay and Hay go too far when they say of the address:
"This is almost precisely the style of his later years," it would be quite as wrong to deny
any likeness between the two.  In the first place, we have the same severely logical treatment
of the subject matter, from which Lincoln, a lawyer and public speaker, never departed.  Lincoln's
grammar may not have been impeccable at this time, but his thinking powers were already little
short of masterly.  This, then, is the first element in the makeup of Lincoln's style, the
ability to think straight and consequently to write straight.  His legal training, which was
then very meagre, cannot account for his logical thinking; it is more correct to say that he
later became a successful lawyer because of the logical bent of his mind.

Closely connected with this early development of the form of thinking was Lincoln's interest
in words, and his desire always to use words with a perfect understanding of their meaning.
Even in his boyhood he found pleasure in discovering the exact meaning of a new word and in
later life he was constantly adding to his verbal stores.  Shortly before his inauguration
Lincoln remarked to a clergyman, who had asked him how he had acquired his remarkable power
of "putting things": "I can say this, that among my earliest recollections I remember how,
when a mere child, I used to get irritated when anybody talked to me in a way I could not understand.
I don't think I ever got angry at anything else in my life.  But that always disturbed my temper,
and has ever since.  I can remember going to my little bedroom, after hearing the neighbors
talk of an evening with my father, and spending no small part of the night walking up and down,
trying to make out what was the exact meaning of their, to me, dark sayings."

In this first address we find no loose use of words.  The character of the address does not
of course admit of ornament or figurative language, but any subject, however simple, admits
of digressions and mental excursions by the illogical and careless writer.  Of these there
is not a trace.  Even in the most informal letters and telegrams, written at post haste and
at times under the most extreme pressure of business and anxiety, Lincoln shows a natural feeling
for the appropriate expression that is found only in the masters of language.

Five years later, in 1837, the interval being represented by only a few unimportant letters,
Lincoln entered upon a period distinguished by qualities that are not usually associated with
his name, a tendency to fine writing that we should look for earlier than at the age of twenty-eight.
The subject of the address is "The Perpetuation of our Political Institutions," and the complete
text is given in this volume. Here for once Lincoln speaks of an Alexander, a Buonoparte, a
Washington.  The influence of Webster is apparent, in this first purely oratorical attempt
of Lincoln's.  It could hardly have been otherwise at a time when the great Whig orator was
making the whole country ring with his wonderful speeches.  It is almost certain, too, that
Henry Clay, to whom Lincoln later referred as beau ideal of an orator, had a part in moulding
this early manner, though this is probably less apparent here than in the later soberer addresses.

But it must not be supposed that this speech consists merely of what Hamlet would call "words,
words, words."  Neither are all the figures inferior and commonplace.  Although it is more
ornate than anything in the later period, the following description of the passing away of
the heroes of the Revolution is a fine example of the Websterian style: "They were a forest
of giant oaks; but the all-resistless hurricane has swept over them, and left only here and
there a lonely trunk, despoiled of its verdure, shorn of its foliage, unshading and unshaded,
to murmur in a few more ruder storms, then to sink and be no more."  The closing sentence of
the address is almost wholly, in the later style and might have served for the close of the
First Inaugural, which, in its original form, did actually contain a Biblical quotation.

That the rhetorical manner had not gained entire possession of Lincoln at that time, but was
simply used by him on what seemed to be appropriate occasions, is sufficiently shown by a speech
delivered in the legislature early in 1839, in which we find the strictly logical discussion
of the first address.  This speech is especially interesting because of the fact that it is
the earliest encounter of Lincoln and Douglas that has been preserved.  In a way, therefore,
it may be regarded as the first Lincoln-Douglas debate.

One other rhetorical effort was made, in 1842, and then we find no more specimens of this class
of speaking until the so-called Lost Speech of 1856.  This address of 1842 was delivered before
the Springfield Washingtonian Temperance Society, on Washington's Birthday, and it is even
more inflated than the first specimen.  Combined with the rhetoric, however, there is a mass
of sober argument that again suggests the later Lincoln.  The arguments, too, are characterized
by a sound common sense that is no less characteristic of the speaker.  The peroration deserves
quotation as being one of the finest and at the same time one of the least familiar passages
in Lincoln's writings: "This is the one hundredth and tenth anniversary of the birthday of
Washington.  We are met to celebrate this day.  Washington is the mightiest name of earth:
long since mightiest in the cause of civil liberty, still mightiest in moral reformation. 
On that name a eulogy is expected.  It cannot be.  To add brightness to the sun or glory to
the name of Washington is alike impossible.  Let none attempt it.  In solemn awe pronounce
the name, and in its naked, deathless splendor leave it shining on."  This approaches very
closely the beauty and strength of the presidential period.

In 1844 Lincoln wrote several poems, which are not without merit.  As a boy he was famous among
his companions for his skill in writing humorous verses, but these later specimens of his muse
are serious, even melancholy in their tone.

We next come to the congressional period, from 1847 to 1849.  The best-known speech from this
period, Lincoln's introduction to a national public, is that of July 27, 1848, on General Taylor
and the veto, Taylor being then the Whig candidate for the presidency.  This speech, which
was received with immense applause, owes its special prominence to the fact that it is the
only purely humorous speech by Lincoln that has been preserved.  The subject of the attack
is General Cass, Taylor's Democratic opponent, whom Lincoln treats in a manner that somewhat
suggests Douglas' later treatment of Lincoln on the stump.  Its peroration is of peculiar interest,
since it consists of a funny story.

To anyone familiar with Lincoln's habit of story-telling the introduction of a story at the
end of a speech may not seem strange. But, as a matter of fact, this is the only case of the
kind that has been noted, and a careful reading of the speeches shows either that they were
not fully reported or that as a rule he confined his story-telling to conversation.  Even in
the debates with Douglas, when he was addressing Illinois crowds from the stump at a time when
stories were even more popular than they are now, Lincoln seldom used this device to rouse
interest or to strengthen his argument.  A partial explanation of this curious contrast between
his conversation and his writing, so far as the debates are concerned, may be found in a remark
made by Lincoln to a friend who had urged him to treat the subject more popularly.  Lincoln
said; "The occasion is too serious, the issues are too grave.  I do not seek applause, or to
amuse the people, but to convince them."  With Lincoln the desire to prove his proposition,
whatever it might be, was always uppermost.  In the earliest speeches were noted the severe
logic and the strict adherence to the subject in hand.  To the end Lincoln never changed this
principle of his public speaking.

Although the stories, then, have but little direct bearing upon Lincoln's writings, they are
so characteristic a feature of the man that they cannot be wholly disregarded.  In the two
cases already noted the stories were illustrative, and this appears to be true of all of Lincoln's
anecdotes, whether they occur in his conversation or in his writings.  He apparently never
dragged in stories for their own sake, as so many conversational bores are in the habit of
doing, but the story was suggested by or served to illustrate some incident or principle. 
Indeed, in aptness of illustration Lincoln has never been surpassed.  Emerson said of him:
"I am sure if this man had ruled in a period of less facility of printing, he would have become
mythological in a very few years, like Aesop or Pilpay, or one of the Seven Wise Masters, by
his fables and proverbs."  Many of the anecdotes attributed to Lincoln are undoubtedly to be
referred to other sources, but the number of authentic stories noted, especially during the
presidency, is very large.

The question has often been raised whether Lincoln originated the stories he told so well.
Fortunately we have his own words in this matter.  To Noah Brooks he said: "I do generally
remember a good story when I hear it, but I never did invent anything original.  I am only
a retail dealer."  Slightly differing from this, though probably not contradicting it, is Lincoln's
statement to Mr. Chauncey M. Depew: "I have originated but two stories in my life, but I tell
tolerably well other people's stories."

During the Civil War Lincoln's stories served a special purpose as a sort of safety valve.
To a Congressman, who had remonstrated with him for his apparent frivolity in combining funny
stories with serious discussion, he said: "If it were not for these stories I should die."
The addresses of the presidential period, however, with the exception of a few responses to
serenades, are entirely without humorous anecdotes.  Although Lincoln never hesitated to clear
the discussion of the most momentous questions through the medium of a funny story, his sense
of official and literary propriety made him confine them to informal occasions.

The Eulogy of Henry Clay of 1852 is of interest as being the only address of this kind that
Lincoln ever delivered.  It might perhaps better be called an appreciation, and because of
its sincerity and deep sympathy it may be regarded as a model of its kind.  Two years later
Lincoln engaged in his first real debate with Douglas on the burning question of the day, the
repeal of the Missouri Compromise.  From the purely literary point of view the Peoria Speech
is superior to the better-known debates of four years later.  While it lacks the finish and
poise of the two Inaugurals it is far more imaginative than the Debates.  One of its most striking
features is the comparatively large number of quotations, both from the Bible and from profane
writings. Although as a rule Lincoln quotes sparingly, this one speech contains no fewer than
twelve quotations, seven of these being from the Bible. The only other speech that equals this
one in the number of quotations is the so-called Lost Speech of 1856, the authenticity of which
is doubtful.  The very much shorter Second Inaugural, however, with its four Bible quotations,
has a larger proportionate number.  Lincoln's quotations seem to be suggested emotionally rather
than intellectually. This is indicated by the fact that the most emotional speeches contain
the greatest number of quotations.  The first Inaugural, for example, which is in the main
a sober statement of principles, intended to quiet rather than to excite passion, is four times
as long as the emotional Second Inaugural, but contains only one quotation to the four of the
other.  We may note in this connection that almost exactly one-half of the total number of
quotations occurring in Lincoln's writings are taken from the Bible, and that a large proportion
of the profane quotations are from Shakespeare.  Lincoln was also fond of using proverbial
sayings, a habit that emphasized his character as a popular or national writer.  For most of
his proverbs are local and many of them are intensely homely.  Quotations of this class occur
at all periods of his life, beginning with the first address, and they are sometimes used in
such unexpected places as official telegrams to officers in the field.  Strange to say, the
maxim that is most frequently associated with Lincoln's name cannot with any certainty be regarded
as having been used by him, either as a quotation or as an original saying, "You can fool all
of the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all
the people all the time."

At the first regular Republican State Convention in Illinois, held at Bloomington, May 29,
1856, Lincoln delivered an address on the public issues of the day that roused the enthusiasm
of his hearers to such a degree that the reporters forgot to take notes and therefore failed
to furnish the text to their respective newspapers.  In the course of time it came to be known
as the Lost Speech, and such, in the opinion of many who were present on the occasion, it continued
to be.  Mr. W. C. Whitney, a young lawyer from the neighboring town of Champaign, later prepared
a version based upon notes, from which some general idea of the character of the speech can
perhaps be gained.

The Lincoln-Douglas Debates furnish perhaps the best example of this class of public speaking
that is available.  Although they were extempore, as far as the actual language is concerned,
they have been preserved in full.  In spite of the informal style appropriate to the "stump,"
these discussions of the Dred Scott decision, Popular Sovereignty, and the other questions
suggested by slavery are marked by a closeness of reasoning and a readiness of retort that
show the great master in the difficult art of debate.  These qualities are not confined to
the one speaker, for his opponent was no less adroit and ready.  We may well say in this connection,
"there were giants in those days."

Much of Lincoln's success in these historic debates was due to his intense conviction of the
righteousness of the cause for which he was pleading.  As lawyer and political speaker Lincoln
always felt the necessity of believing in his case.  He frequently refused to appear in suits
because he could not put his heart into them, and he never defended a policy from mere party
loyalty.  Much of Lincoln's success as a speaker was due to the fact that his hearers felt
that they could trust him.  This is simply a new application of the old principle that the
chief qualification for success in oratory is character.  In reading a man's books we may forget
his character for the time, but in listening to an orator we have the man himself constantly
before us, and he himself makes or mars his success.

In 1859 Lincoln delivered his second and last long occasional address--a discussion of agriculture
at the Wisconsin State Fair at Milwaukee.  This is the only important non-political speech
by Lincoln that has been preserved and it is interesting as showing his ability to treat a
subject of general interest.  Here, as in his discussions of political questions, Lincoln displayed
true statesmanlike insight and foresight, long before the time when experiment stations and
farmers' institutes began to teach the very principles that he so wisely and effectively expounded.

In 1860 Lincoln appeared for the first time before a New York audience and we have his own
word for it that he suffered a severe attack of stage fright on that occasion.  The event showed,
however, that he had no reason to fear the judgment of one of the most critical audiences that
ever assembled in the Cooper Union.  The Hon. Joseph H. Choate, who was present, writes of
his appearance: "When he spoke he was transformed, his eye kindled, his voice rang, his face
shone and seemed to light up the whole assembly.  For an hour and a half he held his audience
in the hollow of his hand."  This address may be regarded as a precursor, and a worthy precursor,
of the First Inaugural, and by many competent critics it has been given the first place among
the discussions of the political situation just before the war.  After such a performance there
could be no hesitation on the part of those that heard it in acknowledging Abraham Lincoln
as one of the most powerful speakers of his day.  Before returning to Illinois Lincoln travelled
through several of the New England States, making speeches in a number of the larger towns.

The speeches delivered by Lincoln on the journey to Washington, in 1860, beginning with the
exquisite Farewell Address at Springfield, include some of the best of his shorter addresses.
The most interesting of these is the one delivered in Independence Hall.

The First Inaugural Address was not received at the time of its first publication in the newspapers,
even at the North, with the general enthusiasm that we should now be inclined to assume; and
in the South it was severely criticised for its alleged lack of force and definiteness.  Its
effect, however, upon the immense audience gathered in front of the Capitol seems to have been
immediate.  The document had been written with great care at Springfield, some changes being
made after the arrival at Washington.  The most important of these were the substitution for
the original closing paragraph of the beautiful peroration suggested by Secretary Seward. 
In beauty of language and elevation of thought this first public utterance by President Lincoln
may be compared to the great political utterances of Burke.

First among the little classics of the world stands the Gettysburg Address.  At the time of
its delivery it does not seem to have been generally accepted as a notable utterance.  By many
of the newspaper correspondents it was referred to as "remarks by the President," and some
of the papers contained no comment upon it.  By others it was dismissed with a few words of
mild praise.  Even after the death of Lincoln there was no general agreement as to its supreme
merits as a part of our national literature.  Conflicting stories still pass current in books
and articles on Lincoln about its composition, and original reception.  An examination of the
testimony shows that the following facts may be accepted as fairly proved.  The greater part
of the address was written in Washington after very careful preparation, and profound reflection.
The address was read from MS., but with some variations that apparently occurred to the speaker
at the time of delivery.  Mr. Everett did not clasp the President's hand while he expressed
a willingness to exchange his hundred pages for the twenty lines just read.  It is uncertain
whether Lincoln said at the time that the address did not "scour," but if he did use such an
expression it was not because of a consciousness of having failed to make adequate preparation
for the occasion.

One of the best commentaries on the Second Inaugural Address appeared in an article in the
London Spectator: "We cannot read it without a renewed conviction that it is the noblest political
document known to history, and should have for the nation and the statesmen he left behind
him something of a sacred and almost prophetic character."  Carl Schurz compared it to a sacred
poem, and all discriminating readers agree in placing it by the side of the Gettysburg Address
as an almost perfect specimen of pure English prose.

The other addresses of the presidential period are, with the exception of the last speech,
on the reconstruction of Louisiana, of minor importance.  They consist in the main of responses
to serenades, a form of address which Lincoln cordially detested and in which as a rule he
achieved only a moderate degree of success.  The cares of his great office made such cruel
demands upon his time and strength that he declined many requests to speak in public, and whenever
he did appear he confined his remarks within the smallest possible limits. Furthermore, Lincoln
was not a reader speaker and rarely did himself justice without careful preparation.  Writers
on Lincoln have failed to note the severe criticisms upon Lincoln's impromptu remarks that
appeared in the opposition press and in the English newspapers.  Even as late as 1863 newspaper
writers not opposed to him did not hesitate to refer to the plainness of the President's public
speaking.

The Messages to Congress are distinguished from most documents of that class by their frequent
purple patches.  To the enumeration of dry facts furnished by the various departments they
add an elevation and breadth of thought of the first order.

In a class by themselves are the various proclamations, some of them of a purely formal character,
such as those announcing blockades, others of a distinctly literary character, like the announcements
of fasts and feasts.  Midway between these two classes is the most important of all, the Emancipation
Proclamation of January 1, 1863, which, with the exception of the concluding sentence, is entirely
free from ornament. Perhaps Lincoln felt here, as with the Debates, that the occasion was too
serious, not only for jesting but even for attempting the mere graces of language.

Finally, mention should be made of the letters and telegrams written by President Lincoln.
Although many letters have been preserved from earlier times, none make special claims to attention
outside of the information that they furnish.  But during the last four years of his life Lincoln
wrote some of the most beautiful letters that have ever been composed.  One of these, the letter
to Mrs. Bixby, has been given a place on the walls of one of the Oxford colleges, as a model
of noble English.  The Conkling letter and the letter to Horace Greeley are among the most
important statements of Lincoln's policy and are really short political tracts.

The First Inaugural can be traced through the Cooper Union Address and the Lincoln-Douglas
Debates, the Peoria Speech, and the speeches of 1854 to the seed of 1832, the plain, logical,
direct statement of principles of Lincoln's first address to the public.  The development of
the Gettysburg Address and the Second Inaugural, those supreme expressions of Lincoln's feelings,
is not, in the main, to be traced through complete speeches, but it must be sought for in isolated
passages, when he left logic for the moment and gave himself up to the passing emotion.  The
real seed of the majestic simplicity of those addresses is perhaps to be found in those rhetorical
speeches of an early period, so lacking apparently in the qualities that we love and admire.
In writing, as in so many other things, we reap not what we sow, but its fruition.  The effect
may seem very remotely related to the cause, but he would be a fool who would deny the relation
between them.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

The complete works of Abraham Lincoln have been compiled and edited by his biographers, John
G. Nicolay and John Hay (two vols., Century Company).  Their life of Lincoln in ten volumes
(Century Company) is the standard authority.  There is also an excellent condensation in one
volume.  Other biographies are by W. H. Herndon, Lincoln's law partner (two vols., Putnam);
by Miss Ida Tarbell (two vols., McClure); by John T. Morse, Jr., in the American Statesmen
Series (Houghton, Mifflin & Co.); and by Norman Hapgood (Macmillan).

Among the many tributes to Lincoln, are the essays by James Russell Lowell, Carl Schurz, the
address by Emerson; and poems by Stedman, Bryant, Holmes, Stoddard, Gilder, and Whitman, and
the noble lines in Lowell's Commemoration Ode.

The student of Lincoln's writings should be familiar with the history of the United States,
and should consult the standard histories for explanation of the references to events in the
long struggle which culminated in the Civil War.

CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE

 LIFE OF LINCOLN.        CONTEMPORARY            CONTEMPORARY
                         BIOGRAPHY.              AMERICAN HISTORY.

 1809. Lincoln born,     1809. Gladstone,        1809. Madison President.
   Feb. 12.                Darwin, Tennyson,
                           Poe, Holmes born.

                         1813. Douglas born.

 1816. Family moved                              1816. Indiana admitted
   to Indiana.                                     as a state.

 1818. Mother died.                              1818. Illinois admitted
                                                   as a state.

 1819. Father married
   Sarah Johnston.

                                                 1820. Missouri Compromise.

                                                 1821. Missouri admitted
                                                   as a state.

                         1822. Grant born.

                                                 1829. Jackson President.

 1830. Family moved      1830. Douglas moved     1830. Speeches of Hayne
   to Illinois.            to New York.            and Webster.

 1831. Settled in                                1831. Publication of
   New Salem.                                      The Liberatur.

 1832. Enlisted in the                           1832. Founding of the
   Black Hawk War:                                 New England Anti-Slavery
   unsuccessful                                    Society.
   candidate for the
   legislature

 1833. Postmaster of     1833. Douglas moved     1833. Founding of the
   New Salem; deputy       to Illinois.            American Anti-Slavery
   surveyor's clerk.                               Society.

 1834. Elected to the    1834. Douglas admitted
   legislature.            to the bar.

                         1835. Douglas elected
                           State's Attorney.

 1836. Reelected to      1836. Douglas elected
   the legislature.        to the legislature.
   Presidential Elector.

 1837. Admitted to       1837. Douglas           1837. Van Buren
   the bar.  Moved         appointed Registrar     President.  Murder
   to Springfield.         of the Land Office;     of Owen Lovejoy.
                           nominated for
                           Congress.

 1838. Reelected to
   the legislature.

 1840. Presidential      1840. Douglas
   Elector.                appointed Judge
                           of the Illinois
                           Supreme Court.

                                                 1841. Harrison
                                                   President.  Tyler
                                                   President.

 1843. Married to
   Mary Todd.

 1844.  Presidential      1844. Douglas elected
   Elector.                 to Congress.

                                                 1845. Polk President.
                                                   Texas admitted as a
                                                   state.

 1846. Elected to                                1846-48. War with Mexico.
   Congress.

                          1847. Douglas elected
                            U.S. Senator; moved
                            to Chicago.

 1848. Presidential
   Elector.

                                                 1849. Taylor President.

                          1850. Death of
                            Calhoun.

                                                 1850. Fillmore President.
                                                   Clay's Compromise
                                                   Measure.

                          1852. Death of Clay
                            and of Webster.

                          1853. Douglas          1853. Pierce President.
                            reelected Senator.

 1854. Reelected to the                          1854. Kansas-Nebraska
   legislature.                                    Bill.

 1855. Resigned from the
   legislature.  Candidate
   for the U. S. Senate.

 1856. Candidate for                             1856. Fremont first
   nomination for                                  Republican candidate for
   Vice-President.                                 the presidency.  Civil
                                                   war in Kansas.

                                                 1857. Buchanan President.
                                                   The Dred Scott Decision.

 1858. Candidate for                             1858. Lincoln-Douglas
   the U. S. Senate.                               Debates.

                          1859. Douglas          1859. Death of John
                            reelected              Brown.
                            to the Senate.

 1860. Cooper Institute   1860. Douglas          1860. South Carolina
   Address.  Elected        Democratic             Ordinance of Secession.
   President.               candidate
                            for the Presidency.

 1861. Left Springfield,  1861. Douglas died,    1861. Fall of Fort Sumter,
   Feb. 11; inaugurated     June 3.                April 12.  Battle
   March 4.                 McClellan              of Bull Run, July 21.
                            Commander-in-Chief.    Kansas admitted as a
                                                   state.

 1862. The Preliminary                           1862. Slavery abolished
   Emancipation                                    in the District of
   Proclamation, Sept. 22.                         Columbia, April 16.

 1863. The Final                                 1863. Battle of
   Emancipation                                    Gettysburg, July 1-5.
   Proclamation,
   Jan. 1.  The
   Gettysburg Address,
   Nov. 19.

 1864. Reelected to        1864. Grant           1864. Battles of the
   the Presidency.           appointed             Wilderness, May 6-7.
                             Lieutenant-General.

 1865. Inaugurated,                              1865. Fall of Richmond,
   Mar. 4.  Assassinated,                          April 3.  Surrender of
   April 14; died April                            Lee, April 9.  Johnson
   15; buried at                                   sworn in as President,
   Springfield, May 4.                             April 15.

Time and experience have verified to a demonstration, the public utility of internal improvements.
That the poorest and most thinly populated countries would be greatly benefited by the opening
of good roads, and in the clearing of navigable streams within their limits, is what no person
will deny.  But yet it is folly to undertake works of this or any other kind, without first
knowing that we are able to finish them--as half finished work generally proves to be labor
lost. There cannot justly be any objection to having railroads and canals, any more than to
other good things, provided they cost nothing.  The only objection is to paying for them; and
the objection to paying arises from the want of ability to pay.

With respect to the county of Sangamon, some more easy means of communication than we now possess,
for the purpose of facilitating the task of exporting the surplus products of its fertile soil,
and importing necessary articles from abroad, are indispensably necessary. A meeting has been
held of the citizens of Jacksonville, and the adjacent country, for the purpose of deliberating
and enquiring into the expediency of constructing a railroad from some eligible point on the
Illinois river, through the town of Jacksonville, in Morgan county, to the town of Springfield
in Sangamon county.  This is, indeed, a very desirable object.  No other improvement that reason
will justify us in hoping for, can equal in utility the railroad.  It is a never failing source
of communication, between places of business remotely situated from each other.  Upon the railroad
the regular progress of commercial intercourse is not interrupted by either high or low water,
or freezing weather, which are the principal difficulties that render our future hopes of water
communication precarious and uncertain.  Yet, however desirable an object the construction
of a railroad through our country may be; however high our imaginations may be heated at thoughts
of it--there is always a heart appalling shock accompanying the account of its cost, which
forces us to shrink from our pleasing anticipations. The probable cost of this contemplated
railroad is estimated at $290,000;--the bare statement of which, in my opinion, is sufficient
to justify the belief, that the improvement of the Sangamon river is an object much better
suited to our infant resources.

Respecting this view, I think I may say, without the fear of being contradicted, that its navigation
may be rendered completely practicable, as high as the mouth of the South Fork, or probably
higher, to vessels of from 25 to 30 tons burthen, for at least one half of all common years,
and to vessels of much greater burthen a part of that time.  From my peculiar circumstances,
it is probable that for the last twelve months I have given as particular attention to the
stage of the water in this river, as any other person in the country.  In the month of March,
1831, in company with others, I commenced the building of a flatboat on the Sangamon, and finished
and took her out in the course of the spring.  Since that time, I have been concerned in the
mill at New Salem.  These circumstances are sufficient evidence, that I have not been very
inattentive to the stages of the water.--The time at which we crossed the milldam, being in
the last days of April, the water was lower than it had been since the breaking of winter in
February, or than it was for several weeks after.  The principal difficulties we encountered
in descending the river, were from the drifted timber, which obstructions all know is not difficult
to be removed.  Knowing almost precisely the height of water at that time, I believe I am safe
in saying that it has as often been higher as lower since.

From this view of the subject, it appears that my calculations with regard to the navigation
of the Sangamon, cannot be unfounded in reason; but whatever may be its natural advantages,
certain it is, that it never can be practically useful to any great extent, without being greatly
improved by art.  The drifted timber, as I have before mentioned, is the most formidable barrier
to this object.  Of all parts of this river, none will require so much labor in proportion,
to make it navigable as the last thirty or thirty-five miles; and going with the meanderings
of the channel, when we are this distance above its mouth, we are only between twelve and eighteen
miles above Beardstown in something near a straight direction, and this route is upon such
low ground as to retain water in many places during the season, and in all parts such as to
draw two-thirds or three-fourths of the river water at all stages.

This route is up on prairieland the whole distance;--so that it appears to me, by removing
the turf, a sufficient width, and damming up the old channel, the whole river in a short time
would wash its way through, thereby curtailing the distance, and increasing the velocity of
the current very considerably, while there would be no timber upon the banks to obstruct its
navigation in future; and being nearly straight, the timber which might float in at the head,
would be apt to go clear through.  There are also many places above this where the river, in
its zigzag course, forms such complete peninsulas, as to be easier cut through at the necks
than to remove the obstructions from the bends--which if done, would also lessen the distance.

What the cost of this work would be, I am unable to say.  It is probable, however, that it
would not be greater than is common to streams of the same length.  Finally, I believe the
improvement of the Sangamon river, to be vastly important and highly desirable to the improvement
of the county; and if elected, any measure in the legislature having this for its object, which
may appear judicious, will meet my approbation and shall receive my support.

It appears that the practice of loaning money at exorbitant rates of interest, has already
been opened as a field for discussion; so I suppose I may enter upon it without claiming the
honor, or risking the danger, which may await its first explorer.  It seems as though we are
never to have an end to this baneful and corroding system, acting almost as prejudicial to
the general interests of the community as a direct tax of several thousand dollars annually
laid on each county, for the benefit of a few individuals only, unless there be a law made
setting a limit to the rates of usury.  A law for this purpose, I am of opinion, may be made
without materially injuring any class of people. In cases of extreme necessity there could
always be means found to cheat the law, while in all other cases it would have its intended
effect.  I would not favor the passage of a law upon this subject which might be very easily
evaded.  Let it be such that the labor and difficulty of evading it could only be justified
in cases of greatest necessity.

Upon the subject of education, not presuming to dictate any plan or system respecting it, I
can only say that I view it as the most important subject which we as a people can be engaged
in.  That every man may receive at least, a moderate education, and thereby be enabled to read
the history of his own and other countries, by which he may duly appreciate the value of our
free institutions, appears to be an object of vital importance, even on this account alone,
to say nothing of the advantages and satisfaction to be derived from all being able to read
the scriptures and other works, both of a religious and moral nature, for themselves.  For
my part, I desire to see the time when education, and by its means, morality, sobriety, enterprise
and industry, shall become much more general than at present, and should be gratified to have
it in my power to contribute something to the advancement of any measure which might have a
tendency to accelerate the happy period.

With regard to existing laws, some alterations are thought to be necessary.  Many respectable
men have suggested that our estray laws--the law respecting the issuing of executions, the
road law, and some others, are deficient in their present form, and require alterations.  But
considering the great probability that the framers of those laws were wiser than myself, I
should prefer [not] meddling with them, unless they were first attacked by others, in which
case I should feel it both a privilege and a duty to take that stand, which in my view, might
tend most to the advancement of justice.

But, fellow-citizens, I shall conclude.--Considering the great degree of modesty which should
always attend youth, it is probable I have already been more presuming than becomes me.  However,
upon the subjects of which I have treated, I have spoken as I thought.  I may be wrong in regard
to any or all of them; but, holding it a sound maxim, that it is better to be only sometimes
right, than at all times wrong, so soon as I discover my opinions to be erroneous, I shall
be ready to renounce them.

Every man is said to have his peculiar ambition.  Whether it be true or not, I can say, for
one, that I have no other so great as that of being truly esteemed of my fellow men, by rendering
myself worthy of their esteem.  How far I shall succeed in gratifying this ambition, is yet
to be developed.  I am young and unknown to many of you.  I was born and have ever remained
in the most humble walks of life.  I have no wealthy or popular relations to recommend me.
My case is thrown exclusively upon the independent voters of this county, and if elected they
will have conferred a favor upon me, for which I shall be unremitting in my labors to compensate.
But, if the good people in their wisdom shall see fit to keep me in the background, I have
been too familiar with disappointments to be very much chagrined.

  Your friend and fellow-citizen,
            A. LINCOLN.  We find
ourselves under the government of a system of political institutions
conducing more essentially to the ends of civil and religious liberty
than any of which the history of former times tells us.  We, when
mounting the stage of existence, found ourselves the legal inheritors
of these fundamental blessings.  We toiled not in the acquirement or
establishment of them--they are a legacy bequeathed us by a once hardy,
brave, and patriotic, but now lamented and departed, race of ancestors.
Theirs was the task (and nobly they performed it) to possess
themselves, and through themselves us, of this goodly land, and to
uprear upon its hills and its valleys a political edifice of liberty
and equal rights; 'tis ours only to transmit these, the former
unprofaned by the foot of an invader; the latter undecayed by the lapse
of time and untorn by usurpation--to the latest generation that fate
shall permit the world to know.  This task gratitude to our fathers,
justice to ourselves, duty to posterity, and love for our species in
general, all imperatively require us faithfully to perform.

How, then, shall we perform it?--At what point shall we expect the approach of danger?  By
what means shall we fortify against it?  Shall we expect some transatlantic military giant
to step the ocean and crush us at a blow?  Never!--All the armies of Europe, Asia, and Africa
combined, with all the treasure of the earth (our own excepted) in their military chest, with
a Buonaparte for a commander, could not by force take a drink from the Ohio or make a track
on the Blue Ridge in a trial of a thousand years.

At what point then is the approach of danger to be expected?  I answer, If it ever reach us
it must spring up amongst us.  It cannot come from abroad.  If destruction be our lot, we must
ourselves be its author and finisher.  As a nation of freemen we must live through all time,
or die by suicide.

I hope I am over wary; but if I am not, there is, even now, something of ill omen amongst us.
I mean the increasing disregard for law which pervades the country; the growing disposition
to substitute the wild and furious passions in lieu of the sober judgment of courts; and the
worse than savage mobs, for the executive ministers of justice.  This disposition is awfully
fearful in any community; and that it now exists in ours, though grating to our feelings to
admit, it would be a violation of truth and an insult to our intelligence to deny.  Accounts
of outrages committed by mobs form the every-day news of the times. They have pervaded the
country from New England to Louisiana;--they are neither peculiar to the eternal snows of the
former nor the burning suns of the latter; they are not the creature of climate, neither are
they confined to the slave-holding or the non-slave-holding states. Alike they spring up among
the pleasure-hunting masters of Southern slaves, and the order-loving citizens of the land
of steady habits.--Whatever, then, their cause may be, it is common to the whole country.

It would be tedious as well as useless to recount the horrors of all of them.  Those, happening
in the State of Mississippi and at St. Louis are, perhaps, the most dangerous in example and
revolting to humanity. In the Mississippi case they first commenced by hanging the regular
gamblers--a set of men certainly not following for a livelihood a very useful or very honest
occupation; but one which, so far from being forbidden by the laws, was actually licensed by
an act of the Legislature passed but a single year before.  Next negroes suspected of conspiring
to raise an insurrection were caught up and hanged in all parts of the State; then, white men
supposed to be leagued with the negroes; and finally, strangers from neighboring States, going
thither on business, were, in many instances, subjected to the same fate.  Thus went on this
process of hanging, from gamblers to negroes, from negroes to white citizens, and from these
to strangers, till dead men were seen literally dangling from the boughs of trees upon every
roadside, and in numbers almost sufficient to rival the native Spanish moss of the country,
as a drapery of the forest.

Turn, then, to that horror-striking scene at St. Louis.  A single victim only was sacrificed
there.  This story is very short, and is perhaps the most highly tragic of anything of its
length that has ever been witnessed in real life.  A mulatto man by the name of McIntosh was
seized in the street, dragged to the suburbs of the city, chained to a tree, and actually burned
to death; and all within a single hour from the time he had been a freeman, attending to his
own business and at peace with the world.

Such are the effects of mob law, and such are the scenes becoming more and more frequent in
this land so lately famed for love of law and order, and the stories of which have even now
grown too familiar to attract anything more than an idle remark.

But you are perhaps ready to ask, "What has this to do with the perpetuation of our political
institutions?"  I answer, it has much to do with it.  Its direct consequences are, comparatively
speaking, but a small evil, and much of its danger consists in the proneness of our minds to
regard its direct as its only consequences.  Abstractly considered, the hanging of the gamblers
at Vicksburg was of but little consequence.  They constitute a portion of population that is
worse than useless in any community; and their death, if no pernicious example be set by it,
is never matter of reasonable regret with any one.  If they were annually swept from the stage
of existence by the plague or small-pox, honest men would perhaps be much profited by the operation.--Similar
too is the correct reasoning in regard to the burning of the negro at St. Louis.  He had forfeited
his life by the perpetration of an outrageous murder upon one of the most worthy and respectable
citizens of the city, and had he not died as he did, he must have died by the sentence of the
law in a very short time afterwards.  As to him alone, it was as well the way it was as it
could otherwise have been.  But the example in either case was fearful.  When men take it in
their heads to-day to hang gamblers or burn murderers, they should recollect that in the confusion
usually attending such transactions they will be as likely to hang or burn some one who is
neither a gambler nor a murderer as one who is, and that, acting upon the example they set,
the mob of to-morrow may, and probably will, hang or burn some of them by the very same mistake.
And not only so; the innocent, those who have ever set their faces against violations of law
in every shape, alike with the guilty fall victims to the ravages of mob law; and thus it goes
on, step by step, till all the walls erected for the defence of the persons and property of
individuals are trodden down and disregarded.  But all this, even, is not the full extent of
the evil.  By such examples, by instances of the perpetrators of such acts going unpunished,
the lawless in spirit are encouraged to become lawless in practice; and having been used to
no restraint but dread of punishment, they thus become absolutely unrestrained.  Having ever
regarded government as their deadliest bane, they make a jubilee of the suspension of its operations,
and pray for nothing so much as its total annihilation.  While, on the other hand, good men,
men who love tranquillity, who desire to abide by the laws and enjoy their benefits, who would
gladly spill their blood in the defence of their country, seeing their property destroyed,
their families insulted, and their lives endangered, their persons injured, and seeing nothing
in prospect that forebodes a change for the better, become tired of and disgusted with a government
that offers them no protection, and are not much averse to a change, in which they imagine
they have nothing to lose. Thus, then, by the operation of this mobocratic spirit which all
must admit is now abroad in the land, the strongest bulwark of any government, and particularly
of those constituted like ours, may effectually be broken down and destroyed--I mean the attachment
of the people.  Whenever this effect shall be produced among us; whenever the vicious portion
of population shall be permitted to gather in bands of hundreds and thousands and burn churches,
ravage and rob provision-stores, throw printing-presses into rivers, shoot editors, and hang
and burn obnoxious persons at pleasure and with impunity, depend on it, this government cannot
last.  By such things the feelings of the best citizens will become more or less alienated
from it, and thus it will be left without friends, or with too few, and those few too weak
to make their friendship effectual.  At such a time, and under such circumstances, men of sufficient
talent and ambition will not be wanting to seize the opportunity, strike the blow, and overturn
that fair fabric which for the last half century as been the fondest hope of the lovers of
freedom throughout the world.

I know the American People are much attached to their government; I know they would suffer
much for its sake; I know they would endure evils long and patiently before they would ever
think of exchanging it for another.  Yet, notwithstanding all this, if the laws be continually
despised and disregarded, if their rights to be secure in their persons and property are held
by no better tenure than the caprice of a mob, the alienation of their affections from the
government is the natural consequence; and to that, sooner or later, it must come.

Here, then, is one point at which danger may be expected.

The question recurs, "How shall we fortify against it?"  The answer is simple.  Let every American,
every lover of liberty, every well-wisher to his posterity swear by the blood of the Revolution
never to violate in the least particular the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their
violation by others.  As the patriots of seventy-six did to the support of the Declaration
of Independence, so to the support of the Constitution and Laws let every American pledge his
life, his property, and his sacred honor:--let every man remember that to violate the law is
to trample on the blood of his father, and to tear the charter of his own and his children's
liberty.  Let reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe
that prattles on her lap; let it be taught in schools, in seminaries, and in colleges; let
it be written in primers, spelling books, and in almanacs; let it be preached from the pulpit,
proclaimed in legislative halls, and enforced in courts of justice.  And, in short, let it
become the political religion of the nation; and let the old and the young, the rich and the
poor, the grave and the gay of all sexes and tongues and colors and conditions, sacrifice unceasingly
upon its altars.

While ever a state of feeling such as this shall universally or even very generally prevail
throughout the nation, vain will be every effort, and fruitless every attempt, to subvert our
national freedom.

When I so pressingly urge a strict observance of all the laws, let me not be understood as
saying there are no bad laws, or that grievances may not arise for the redress of which no
legal provisions have been made.  I mean to say no such thing.  But I do mean to say that although
bad laws, if they exist, should be repealed as soon as possible, still they continue in force,
for the sake of example they should be religiously observed.  So also in unprovided cases.
If such arise, let proper legal provisions be made for them with the least possible delay,
but, till then, let them, if not too intolerable, be borne with.

There is no grievance that is a fit object of redress by mob law.  In any case that may arise,
as, for instance, the promulgation of abolitionism, one of two positions is necessarily true--that
is, the thing is right within itself, and therefore deserves the protection of all law and
all good citizens, or, it is wrong, and therefore proper to be prohibited by legal enactments;
and in neither case is the interposition of mob law either necessary, justifiable, or excusable.

But it may be asked, why suppose danger to our political institutions? Have we not preserved
them for more than fifty years?  And why may we not for fifty times as long?

We hope there is no sufficient reason.  We hope all dangers may be overcome; but to conclude
that no danger may ever arise would itself be extremely dangerous.  There are now, and will
hereafter be, many causes, dangerous in their tendency, which have not existed heretofore,
and which are not too insignificant to merit attention.  That our government should have been
maintained in its original form, from its establishment until now, is not much to be wondered
at.  It had many props to support it through that period, which now are decayed and crumbled
away.  Through that period it was felt by all to be an undecided experiment; now it is understood
to be a successful one.--Then, all that sought celebrity and fame and distinction expected
to find them in the success of that experiment.  Their all was staked upon it; their destiny
was inseparably linked with it.  Their ambition aspired to display before an admiring world
a practical demonstration of the truth of a proposition which had hitherto been considered
at best no better than problematical--namely, the capability of a people to govern themselves.
If they succeeded they were to be immortalized; their names were to be transferred to counties,
and cities, and rivers, and mountains; and to be revered and sung, toasted through all time.
If they failed, they were to be called knaves, and fools, and fanatics for a fleeting hour;
then to sink and be forgotten.  They succeeded.  The experiment is successful, and thousands
have won their deathless names in making it so.  But the game is caught; and I believe it is
true that with the catching end the pleasures of the chase.  This field of glory is harvested,
and the crop is already appropriated.  But new reapers will arise, and they too will seek a
field.  It is to deny what the history of the world tells us is true, to suppose that men of
ambition and talents will not continue to spring up amongst us.  And, when they do, they will
as naturally seek the gratification of their ruling passion as others have done before them.
The question then is, Can that gratification be found in supporting and maintaining an edifice
that has been erected by others?  Most certainly it cannot.  Many great and good men, sufficiently
qualified for any task they should undertake, may ever be found whose ambition would aspire
to nothing beyond a seat in Congress, a gubernatorial or a presidential chair; but such belong
not to the family of the lion, or the tribe of the eagle.  What! think you these places would
satisfy an Alexander, a Caesar, or a Napoleon?  Never! Towering genius disdains a beaten path.
It seeks regions hitherto unexplored.  It sees no distinction in adding story to story upon
the monuments of fame erected to the memory of others.  It denies that it is glory enough to
serve under any chief.  It scorns to tread in the footsteps of any predecessor, however illustrious.
It thirsts and burns for distinction; and if possible, it will have it, whether at the expense
of emancipating slaves or enslaving freemen.  Is it unreasonable then, to expect that some
man possessed of the loftiest genius, coupled with ambition sufficient to push it to its utmost
stretch, will at some time spring up among us?  And when such a one does, it will require the
people to be united with each other, attached to the government and laws, and generally intelligent,
to successfully frustrate his designs.

Distinction will be his paramount object, and, although he would as willingly, perhaps more
so, acquire it by doing good as harm, yet, that opportunity being past, and nothing left to
be done in the way of building up, he would set boldly to the task of pulling down.

Here then is a probable case, highly dangerous, and such an one as could have well existed
heretofore.

Another reason which once was, but which, to the same extent, is now no more, has done much
in maintaining our institutions thus far, I mean the powerful influence which the interesting
scenes of the Revolution had upon the passions of the people as distinguished from their judgment.
By this influence, the jealousy, envy, and avarice incident to our nature, and so common to
a state of peace, prosperity, and conscious strength, were for the time in a great measure
smothered and rendered inactive, while the deep-rooted principles of hate, and the powerful
motive of revenge, instead of being turned against each other, were directed exclusively against
the British nation.  And thus, from the force of circumstances, the basest principles of our
nature were either made to lie dormant, or to become the active agents in the advancement of
the noblest of causes--that of establishing and maintaining civil and religious liberty.

But this state of feeling must fade, is fading, has faded, with the circumstances that produced it.

I do not mean to say that the scenes of the Revolution are now or ever will be entirely forgotten,
but that, like everything else, they must fade upon the memory of the world, and grow more
and more dim by the lapse of time.  In history, we hope, they will be read of, and recounted,
so long as the Bible shall be read; but even granting that they will, their influence cannot
be what it heretofore has been. Even then they cannot be so universally known nor so vividly
felt as they were by the generation just gone to rest.  At the close of that struggle, nearly
every adult male had been a participator in some of its scenes.  The consequence was that of
those scenes, in the form of a husband, a father, a son, or a brother, a living history was
to be found in every family--a history bearing the indubitable testimonies of its own authenticity,
in the limbs mangled, in the scars of wounds received, in the midst of the very scenes related--a
history, too, that could be read and understood alike by all, the wise and the ignorant, the
learned and the unlearned.--But those histories are gone.  They can be read no more forever.
They were a fortress of strength; but what invading foeman could never do, the silent artillery
of time has done--the levelling of its walls.  They are gone.

They were pillars of the temple of liberty; and now that they have crumbled away that temple
must fall unless we, their descendants, supply their places with other pillars, hewn from the
solid quarry of sober reason.  Passion has helped us, but can do so no more.  It will in future
be our enemy.  Reason--cold, calculating, unimpassioned reason--must furnish all the materials
for our future support and defence.  Let those materials be moulded into general intelligence,
sound morality, and, in particular, a reverence for the Constitution and laws; and that we
improved to the last, that we remained free to the last, that we revered his name to the last,
that during his long sleep we permitted no hostile foot to pass over or desecrate his resting-place,
shall be that which to learn the last trump shall awaken our WASHINGTON.

Upon these let the proud fabric of freedom rest, as the rock of its basis, and, as truly as
has been said of the only greater institution, "the gates of hell shall not prevail against it."

SPEECH, AT SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS, JUNE 16, 1858

Mr. President, and Gentlemen of the Convention: If we could first know where we are, and whither
we are tending, we could better judge what to do, and how to do it.

Have we no tendency to the latter condition?

Let any one who doubts carefully contemplate that now almost complete legal combination---piece
of machinery, so to speak--compounded of the Nebraska doctrine and the Dred Scott decision.
Let him consider not only what work the machinery is adapted to do, and how well adapted; but
also let him study the history of its construction, and trace, if he can, or rather fail, if
he can, to trace the evidences of design and concert of action among its chief architects,
from the beginning.

The new year of 1854 found slavery excluded from more than half the States by State constitutions,
and from most of the national territory by Congressional prohibition.  Four days later commenced
the struggle which ended in repealing that Congressional prohibition.  This opened all the
national territory to slavery, and was the first point gained.

But, so far, Congress only had acted, and an indorsement by the people, real or apparent, was
indispensable, to save the point already gained, and give chance for more.

This necessity had not been overlooked, but had been provided for, as well as might be, in
the notable argument of "squatter sovereignty," otherwise called "sacred right of self-government,"
which latter phrase, though expressive of the only rightful basis of any government, was so
perverted in this attempted use of it as to amount to just this: That if any one man choose
to enslave another, no third man shall be allowed to object. Then opened the roar of loose
declamation in favor of "Squatter Sovereignty" and "sacred right of self-government."  "But,"
said opposition members, "let us amend the bill so as to expressly declare that the people
of the Territory may exclude slavery."  "Not we," said the friends of the measure; and down
they voted the amendment.

While the Nebraska bill was passing through Congress, a law case involving the question of
a negro's freedom, by reason of his owner having voluntarily taken him first into a free State
and then into a Territory covered by the Congressional prohibition, and held him as a slave
for a long time in each, was passing through the United States Circuit Court for the District
of Missouri; and both Nebraska bill and lawsuit were brought to a decision in the same month
of May, 1854.  The negro's name was "Dred Scott," which name now designates the decision finally
made in the case.  Before the then next presidential election, the law case came to and was
argued in the Supreme Court of the United States; but the decision of it was deferred until
after the election. Still, before the election, Senator Trumbull, on the floor of the Senate,
requested the leading advocate of the Nebraska bill to state his opinion whether the people
of a Territory can constitutionally exclude slavery from their limits; and the latter answers:
"That is a question for the Supreme Court."

The election came.  Mr. Buchanan was elected, and the indorsement, such as it was, secured.
That was the second point gained.  The indorsement, however, fell short of a clear popular
majority by nearly four hundred thousand votes, and so, perhaps, was not overwhelmingly reliable
and satisfactory.  The out-going President, in his last annual message, as impressively as
possible echoed back upon the people the weight and authority of the indorsement.  The Supreme
Court met again; did not announce their decision, but ordered a reargument.  The presidential
inauguration came, and still no decision of the court; but the incoming President in his inaugural
address fervently exhorted the people to abide by the forthcoming decision, whatever it might
be. Then, in a few days, came the decision.

The reputed author of the Nebraska bill finds an early occasion to make a speech at this capital
indorseing the Dred Scott decision, and vehemently denouncing all opposition to it.  The new
President, too, seizes the early occasion of the Silliman letter to indorse and strongly construe
that decision, and to express his astonishment that any different view had ever been entertained!

At length a squabble springs up between the President and the author of the Nebraska bill,
on the mere question of fact, whether the Lecompton Constitution was or was not, in any just
sense, made by the people of Kansas; and in that quarrel the latter declares that all he wants
is a fair vote for the people, and that he cares not whether slavery be voted down or voted
up.  I do not understand his declaration that he cares not whether slavery be voted down or
voted up to be intended by him other than as an apt definition of the policy he would impress
upon the public mind--the principle for which he declares he has suffered so much, and is ready
to suffer to the end.  And well may he cling to that principle.  If he has any parental feeling,
well may he cling to it.  That principle is the only shred left of his original Nebraska doctrine.
Under the Dred Scott decision "squatter sovereignty" squatted out of existence, tumbled down
like temporary scaffolding--like the mould at the foundry served through one blast and fell
back into loose sand,--helped to carry an election, and then was kicked to the winds.  His
late joint struggle with the Republicans against the Lecompton Constitution involves nothing
of the original Nebraska doctrine.  That struggle was made on a point--the right of a people
to make their own constitution--upon which he and the Republicans have never differed.

The several points of the Dred Scott decision, in connection with Senator Douglas's "care not"
policy, constitute the piece of machinery in its present state of advancement.  This was the
third point gained. The working points of that machinery are:

(1) That no negro slave, imported as such from Africa, and no descendant of such slave, can
ever be a citizen of any State, in the sense of that term as used in the Constitution of the
United States. This point is made in order to deprive the negro, in every possible event, of
the benefit of that provision of the United States Constitution which declares that "the citizens
of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States."

(2) That, "subject to the Constitution of the United States," neither Congress nor a Territorial
Legislature can exclude slavery from any United States Territory.  This point is made in order
that individual men may fill up the Territories with slaves, without danger of losing them
as property, and thus to enhance the chances of permanency to the institution through all the
future.

(3) That whether the holding a negro in actual slavery in a free State makes him free as against
the holder, the United States courts will not decide, but will leave to be decided by the courts
of any slave State the negro may be forced into by the master.  This point is made, not to
be pressed immediately; but, if acquiesced in for a while, and apparently indorsed by the people
at an election, then to sustain the logical conclusion that what Dred Scott's master might
lawfully do with Dred Scott, in the free State of Illinois, every other master may lawfully
do with any other one, or one thousand slaves, in Illinois, or in any other free State.

Auxiliary to all this, and working hand in hand with it, the Nebraska doctrine, or what is
left of it, is to educate and mould public opinion, at least Northern public opinion, not to
care whether slavery is voted down or voted up.  This shows exactly where we now are; and partially,
also, whither we are tending.

It will throw additional light on the latter, to go back and run the mind over the string of
historical facts already stated.  Several things will now appear less dark and mysterious than
they did when they were transpiring.  The people were to be left "perfectly free," "subject
only to the Constitution."  What the Constitution had to do with it outsiders could not then
see.  Plainly enough now, it was an exactly fitted niche for the Dred Scott decision to afterward
come in, and declare the perfect freedom of the people to be just no freedom at all.  Why was
the amendment, expressly declaring the right of the people, voted down?  Plainly enough now,
the adoption of it would have spoiled the niche for the Dred Scott decision.  Why was the court
decision held up?  Why even a Senator's individual opinion withheld till after the presidential
election?  Plainly enough now, the speaking out then would have damaged the perfectly free
argument upon which the election was to be carried.  Why the outgoing President's felicitation
on the indorsement?  Why the delay of a reargument?  Why the incoming President's advance exhortation
in favor of the decision?  These things look like the cautious patting and petting of a spirited
horse preparatory to mounting him, when it is dreaded that he may give the rider a fall.  And
why the hasty after-indorsement of the decision by the President and others?

We cannot absolutely know that all these exact adaptations are the result of preconcert.  But
when we see a lot of framed timbers, different portions of which we know have been gotten out
at different times and places and by different workmen,--Stephen, Franklin, Roger, and James,
for instance--and we see these timbers joined together, and see they exactly make the frame
of a house or a mill, all the tenons and mortices exactly fitting, and all the lengths and
proportions of the different pieces exactly adapted to their respective places, and not a piece
too many or too few, not omitting even scaffolding--or, if a single piece be lacking, we see
the place in the frame exactly fitted and prepared yet to bring such piece in--in such a case
we find it impossible not to believe that Stephen and Franklin and Roger and James all understood
one another from the beginning, and all worked upon a common plan or draft drawn up before
the first blow was struck.

It should not be overlooked that, by the Nebraska bill, the people of a State as well as Territory
were to be left "perfectly free," "subject only to the Constitution."  Why mention a State?
They were legislating for Territories, and not for or about States.  Certainly the people of
a State are and ought to be subject to the Constitution of the United States; but why is mention
of this lugged into this merely Territorial law?  Why are the people of a Territory and the
people of a State therein lumped together, and their relation to the Constitution therein treated
as being precisely the same? Possibly, this is a mere omission; but who can be quite sure,
if McLean or Curtis had sought to get into the opinion a declaration of unlimited power in
the people of a State to exclude slavery from their limits, just as Chase and Mace sought to
get such declaration, in behalf of the people of a Territory, into the Nebraska bill--I ask,
who can be quite sure that it would not have been voted down in the one case as it had been
in the other?  The nearest approach to the point of declaring the power of a State over slavery
is made by Judge Nelson.  He approaches it more than once, using the precise idea, and almost
the language too, of the Nebraska act.  On one occasion his exact language is: "except in cases
where the power is restrained by the Constitution of the United States, the law of the State
is supreme over the subject of slavery within its jurisdiction."  In what cases the power of
the States is so restrained by the United States Constitution is left an open question, precisely
as the same question as to the restraint on the power of the Territories was left open in the
Nebraska act.  Put this and that together, and we have another nice little niche, which we
may, ere long, see filled with another Supreme Court decision declaring that the Constitution
of the United States does not permit a State to exclude slavery from its limits.  And this
may especially be expected if the doctrine of "care not whether slavery be voted down or voted
up" shall gain upon the public mind sufficiently to give promise that such a decision can be
maintained when made.

Such a decision is all that slavery now lacks of being alike lawful in all the States.  Welcome,
or unwelcome, such decision is probably coming, and will soon be upon us, unless the power
of the present political dynasty shall be met and overthrown.  We shall lie down pleasantly
dreaming that the people of Missouri are on the verge of making their State free, and we shall
awake to the reality instead that the Supreme Court has made Illinois a slave State.  To meet
and overthrow the power of that dynasty is the work now before all those who would prevent
that consummation.  That is what we have to do.  How can we best do it?

There are those who denounce us openly to their own friends, and yet whisper us softly that
Senator Douglas is the aptest instrument there is with which to effect that object.  They wish
us to infer all from the fact that he now has a little quarrel with the present head of the
dynasty; and that he has regularly voted with us on a single point, upon which he and we have
never differed.  They remind us that he is a great man, and that the largest of us are very
small ones.  Let this be granted.  But "a living dog is better than a dead lion."  Judge Douglas,
if not a dead lion for this work, is at least a caged and toothless one.  How can he oppose
the advances of slavery?  He don't care anything about it.  His avowed mission is impressing
the "public heart" to care nothing about it.  A leading Douglas Democratic newspaper thinks
Douglas's superior talent will be needed to resist the revival of the African slave-trade.
Does Douglas believe an effort to revive that trade is approaching?  He has not said so.  Does
he really think so?  But if it is, how can he resist it?  For years he has labored to prove
it a sacred right of white men to take negro slaves into the new Territories.  Can he possibly
show that it is less a sacred right to buy them where they can be bought cheapest?  And unquestionably
they can be bought cheaper in Africa than in Virginia. He has done all in his power to reduce
the whole question of slavery to one of a mere right of property; and, as such, how can he
oppose the foreign slave-trade--how can he refuse that trade in that "property" shall be "perfectly
free"--unless he does it as a protection to the home production?  And as the home producers
will probably not ask the protection, he will be wholly without a ground of opposition.

Senator Douglas holds, we know, that a man may rightfully be wiser to-day than he was yesterday--that
he may rightfully change when he finds himself wrong.  But can we, for that reason, run ahead,
and infer that he will make any particular change, of which he himself has given no intimation?
Can we safely base our action upon any such vague inference?  Now, as ever, I wish not to misrepresent
Judge Douglas's position, question his motives, or do aught that can be personally offensive
to him.  Whenever, if ever, he and we can come together on principle so that our great cause
may have assistance from his great ability, I hope to have interposed no adventitious obstacle.
But clearly he is not now with us--he does not pretend to be--he does not promise ever to be.

Our cause, then, must be intrusted to, and conducted by, its own undoubted friends--those whose
hands are free, whose hearts are in the work, who do care for the result.  Two years ago the
Republicans of the nation mustered over thirteen hundred thousand strong.  We did this under
the single impulse of resistance to a common danger, with every external circumstance against
us.  Of strange, discordant, and even hostile elements, we gathered from the four winds, and
formed and fought the battle through, under the constant hot fire of a disciplined, proud,
and pampered enemy.  Did we brave all then to falter now?--now, when that same enemy is wavering,
dissevered, and belligerent?  The result is not doubtful.  We shall not fail--if we stand firm,
we shall not fail.  Wise counsels may accelerate or mistakes delay it, but, sooner or later,
the victory is sure to come.

SECOND JOINT DEBATE AT FREEPORT, AUGUST 27, 1858

Ladies and Gentlemen; On Saturday last, Judge Douglas and myself first met in public discussion.
He spoke one hour, I an hour and a half, and he replied for half an hour.  The order is now
reversed.  I am to speak an hour, he an hour and a half, and then I am to reply for half an
hour.  I propose to devote myself during the first hour to the scope of what was brought within
the range of his half-hour speech at Ottawa. Of course, there was brought within the scope
of that half-hour's speech something of his own opening speech.  In the course of that opening
argument Judge Douglas proposed to me seven distinct interrogatories.  In my speech of an hour
and a half, I attended to some other parts of his speech, and incidentally, as I thought, answered
one of the interrogatories then.  I then distinctly intimated to him that I would answer the
rest of his interrogatories on condition only that he should agree to answer as many for me.
He made no intimation at the time of the proposition, nor did he in his reply allude at all
to that suggestion of mine.  I do him no injustice in saying that he occupied at least half
of his reply in dealing with me as though I had refused to answer his interrogatories.  I now
propose that I will answer any of the interrogatories, upon condition that he will answer questions
from me not exceeding the same number.  I give him an opportunity to respond.  The Judge remains
silent.  I now say that I will answer his interrogatories, whether he answers mine or not;
and that after I have done so, I shall propound mine to him.

I have supposed myself, since the organization of the Republican party at Bloomington, in May,
1856, bound as a party man by the platforms of the party, then and since.  If in any interrogatories
which I shall answer I go beyond the scope of what is within these platforms, it will be perceived
that no one is responsible but myself.

Having said thus much, I will take up the Judge's interrogatories as I find them printed in
the Chicago Times, and answer them seriatim. In order that there may be no mistake about it,
I have copied the interrogatories in writing, and also my answers to them.  The first one of
these interrogatories is in these words:

Question 1.  "I desire to know whether Lincoln today stands as he did in 1854, in favor of
the unconditional repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law?"

Answer.  I do not now, nor ever did, stand in favor of the unconditional repeal of the Fugitive
Slave Law.

Q. 2.  "I desire him to answer whether he stands pledged to-day as he did in 1854, against
the admission of any more slave States into the Union, even if the people want them?"

A.  I do not now, nor ever did, stand pledged against the admission of any more slave States
into the Union.

Q. 3.  "I want to know whether he stands pledged against the admission of a new State into
the Union with such a constitution as the people of that State may see fit to make?"

Q. 4.  "I want to know whether he stands to-day pledged to the abolition of slavery in the
District of Columbia?"

A.  I do not stand to-day pledged to the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia.

Q. 5.  "I desire him to answer whether he stands pledged to the prohibition of the slave-trade
between the different States?"

A.  I do not stand pledged to the prohibition of the slave-trade between the different States.

Q. 6.  "I desire to know whether he stands pledged to prohibit slavery in all the Territories
of the United States, North as well as South of the Missouri Compromise line?"

A.  I am impliedly, if not expressly, pledged to a belief in the right and duty of Congress
to prohibit slavery in all the United States Territories.

Q. 7.  "I desire him to answer whether he is opposed to the acquisition of any new territory
unless slavery is first prohibited therein?"

A.  I am not generally opposed to honest acquisition of territory; and, in any given case,
I would or would not oppose such acquisition, accordingly as I might think such acquisition
would or would not aggravate the slavery question among ourselves.

Now, my friends, it will be perceived upon an examination of these questions and answers, that
so far I have only answered that I was not pledged to this, that, or the other.  The Judge
has not framed his interrogatories to ask me anything more than this, and I have answered in
strict accordance with the interrogatories, and have answered truly that I am not pledged at
all upon any of the points to which I have answered.  But I am not disposed to hang upon the
exact form of his interrogatory.  I am really disposed to take up at least some of these questions,
and state what I really think upon them.

As to the first one, in regard to the Fugitive Slave law, I have never hesitated to say, and
I do not now hesitate to say, that I think, under the Constitution of the United States, the
people of the Southern States are entitled to a Congressional Fugitive Slave law.  Having said
that, I have had nothing to say in regard to the existing Fugitive Slave law, further than
that I think it should have been framed so as to be free from some of the objections that pertain
to it, without lessening its efficiency.  And inasmuch as we are now not in an agitation in
regard to an alteration or modification of that law, I would not be the man to introduce it
as a new subject of agitation upon the general question of slavery.

In regard to the other question, of whether I am pledged to the admission of any more slave
States into the Union, I state to you very frankly that I would be exceedingly sorry ever to
be put in a position of having to pass upon that question.  I should be exceedingly glad to
know that there would never be another slave State admitted into the Union; but I must add,
that if slavery shall be kept out of the Territories during the territorial existence of any
one given Territory, and then the people shall, having a fair chance and a clear field, when
they come to adopt the Constitution, do such an extraordinary thing as to adopt a slave Constitution,
uninfluenced by the actual presence of the institution among them, I see no alternative, if
we own the country, but to admit them into the Union.

The third interrogatory is answered by the answer to the second, it being, as I conceive, the
same as the second.

The fourth one is in regard to the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia.  In relation
to that, I have my mind very distinctly made up.  I should be exceedingly glad to see slavery
abolished in the District of Columbia.  I believe that Congress possesses the constitutional
power to abolish it.  Yet, as a member of Congress, I should not, with my present views, be
in favor of endeavoring to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, unless it would be
upon these conditions; First, that the abolition should be gradual; second, that it should
be on a vote of the majority of qualified voters in the District; and third, that compensation
should be made to unwilling owners.  With these three conditions, I confess I would be exceedingly
glad to see Congress abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, and, in the language of Henry
Clay, "sweep from our Capital that foul blot upon our nation."

In regard to the fifth interrogatory, I must say here that as to the question of the abolition
of the slave-trade between the different States, I can truly answer, as I have, that I am pledged
to nothing about it.  It is a subject to which I have not given that mature consideration that
would make me feel authorized to state a position so as to hold myself entirely bound by it.
In other words, that question has never been prominently enough before me to induce me to investigate
whether we really have the constitutional power to do it.  I could investigate it if I had
sufficient time to bring myself to a conclusion upon that subject, but I have not done so,
and I say so frankly to you here and to Judge Douglas.  I must say, however, that if I should
be of opinion that Congress does possess the constitutional power to abolish the slave-trade
among the different States, I should still not be in favor of the exercise of that power unless
upon some conservative principle, as I conceive it, akin to what I have said in relation to
the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia.

My answer as to whether I desire that slavery should be prohibited in all the Territories of
the United States is full and explicit within itself, and cannot be made clearer by any comments
of mine.  So I suppose in regard to the question whether I am opposed to the acquisition of
any more territory unless slavery is first prohibited therein, my answer is such that I could
add nothing by way of illustration, or making myself better understood, than the answer which
I have placed in writing.

Now in all this the Judge has me, and he has me on the record.  I suppose he had flattered
himself that I was really entertaining one set of opinions for one place and another set for
another place--that I was afraid to say at one place what I uttered at another.  What I am
saying here I suppose I say to a vast audience as strongly tending to Abolitionism as any audience
in the State of Illinois, and I believe I am saying that which, if it would be offensive to
any persons and render them enemies to myself, would be offensive to persons in this audience.

I now proceed to propound to the Judge the interrogatories, so far as I have framed them. 
I will bring forward a new instalment when I get them ready.  I will bring them forward now,
only reaching to number four.

The first one is:

Question 1.  If the people of Kansas shall, by means entirely unobjectionable in all other
respects, adopt a State Constitution, and ask admission into the Union under it, before they
have the requisite number of inhabitants according to the English bill,--some ninety-three
thousand,--will you vote to admit them?

Q. 2.

Q. 3.  If the Supreme Court of the United States shall decide that States cannot exclude slavery
from their limits, are you in favor of acquiescing in, adopting, and following such decision
as a rule of political action?

Q. 4.  Are you in favor of acquiring additional territory, in disregard of how such acquisition
may affect the nation on the slavery question?

As introductory to these interrogatories which Judge Douglas propounded to me at Ottawa, he
read a set of resolutions which he said Judge Trumbull and myself had participated in adopting,
in the first Republican State Convention, held at Springfield, in October, 1854.  He insisted
that I and Judge Trumbull, and perhaps the entire Republican party, were responsible for the
doctrines contained in the set of resolutions which he read, and I understand that it was from
that set of resolutions that he deduced the interrogatories which he propounded to me, using
these resolutions as a sort of authority for propounding those questions to me.  Now I say
here to-day that I do not answer his interrogatories because of their springing at all from
that set of resolutions which he read.  I answered them because Judge Douglas thought fit to
ask them.  I do not now, nor ever did, recognize any responsibility upon myself in that set
of resolutions.  When I replied to him on that occasion, I assured him that I never had anything
to do with them.  I repeat here to-day, that I never in any possible form had anything to do
with that set of resolutions.  It turns out, I believe, that those resolutions were never passed
at any convention held in Springfield.  It turns out that they were never passed at any convention
or any public meeting that I had any part in.  I believe it turns out, in addition to all this,
that there was not, in the fall of 1854, any convention holding a session in Springfield calling
itself a Republican State convention; yet it is true there was a convention, or assemblage
of men calling themselves a convention, at Springfield, that did pass some resolutions.  But
so little did I really know of the proceedings of that convention, or what set of resolutions
they had passed, though having a general knowledge that there had been such an assemblage of
men there, that when Judge Douglas read the resolutions, I really did not know but that they
had been the resolutions passed then and there.  I did not question that they were the resolutions
adopted.  For I could not bring myself to suppose that Judge Douglas could say what he did
upon this subject without knowing that it was true.  I contented myself, on that occasion,
with denying, as I truly could, all connection with them, not denying or affirming whether
they were passed at Springfield.  Now it turns out that he had got hold of some resolutions
passed at some convention or public meeting in Kane County.  I wish to say here, that I don't
conceive that in any fair and just mind this discovery relieves me at all.  I had just as much
to do with the convention in Kane County as that at Springfield.  I am just as much responsible
for the resolutions at Kane County as those at Springfield, the amount of the responsibility
being exactly nothing in either case; no more than there would be in regard to a set of resolutions
passed in the moon.

I allude to this extraordinary matter in this canvass for some further purpose than anything
yet advanced.  Judge Douglas did not make his statement upon that occasion as matters that
he believed to be true, but he stated them roundly as being true, in such form as to pledge
his veracity for their truth.  When the whole matter turns out as it does, and when we consider
who Judge Douglas is,--that he is a distinguished Senator of the United States; that he has
served nearly twelve years as such; that his character is not at all limited as an ordinary
Senator of the United States, but that his name has become of world-wide renown,--it is most
extraordinary that he should so far forget all the suggestions of justice to an adversary,
or of prudence to himself, as to venture upon the assertion of that which the slightest investigation
would have shown him to be wholly false.  I can only account for his having done so upon the
supposition that that evil genius which has attended him through his life, giving to him an
apparent astonishing prosperity, such as to lead very many good men to doubt there being any
advantage in virtue over vice--I say I can only account for it on the supposition that that
evil genius has at last made up its mind to forsake him.

And I may add that another extraordinary feature of the Judge's conduct in this canvass--made
more extraordinary by this incident--is, that he is in the habit, in almost all the speeches
he makes, of charging falsehood upon his adversaries, myself and others.  I now ask whether
he is able to find in anything that Judge Trumbull, for instance, has said, or in anything
that I have said, a justification at all compared with what we have, in this instance, for
that sort of vulgarity.

I have been in the habit of charging as a matter of belief on my part, that, in the introduction
of the Nebraska bill into Congress, there was a conspiracy to make slavery perpetual and national.
I have arranged from time to time the evidence which establishes and proves the truth of this
charge.  I recurred to this charge at Ottawa.  I shall not now have time to dwell upon it at
very great length; but, inasmuch as Judge Douglas in his reply of half an hour made some points
upon me in relation to it, I propose noticing a few of them.

The Judge insists that, in the first speech I made, in which I very distinctly made that charge,
he thought for a good while I was in fun!--that I was playful--that I was not sincere about
it--and that he only grew angry and somewhat excited when he found that I insisted upon it
as a matter of earnestness.  He says he characterized it as a falsehood as far as I implicated
his moral character in that transaction.  Well, I did not know, till he presented that view,
that I had implicated his moral character.  He is very much in the habit, when he argues me
up into a position I never thought of occupying, of very cozily saying he has no doubt Lincoln
is "conscientious" in saying so. He should remember that I did not know but what he was ALTOGETHER
"CONSCIENTIOUS" in that matter.  I can conceive it possible for men to conspire to do a good
thing, and I really find nothing in Judge Douglas's course of arguments that is contrary to
or inconsistent with his belief of a conspiracy to nationalize and spread slavery as being
a good and blessed thing, and so I hope he will understand that I do not at all question but
that in all this matter he is entirely "conscientious."

But to draw your attention to one of the points I made in this case, beginning at the beginning.
I have called his attention to the fact that when he and some others began arguing that they
were giving an increased degree of liberty to the people in the Territories over and above
what they formerly had on the question of slavery, a question was raised whether the law was
enacted to give such unconditional liberty to the people; and to test the sincerity of this
mode of argument, Mr. Chase, of Ohio, introduced an amendment, in which he made the law--if
the amendment were adopted--expressly declare that the people of the Territory should have
the power to exclude slavery if they saw fit.  I have asked attention also to the fact that
Judge Douglas, and those who acted with him, voted that amendment down, notwithstanding it
expressed exactly the thing they said was the true intent and meaning of the law.  I have called
attention to the fact that in subsequent times a decision of the Supreme Court has been made
in which it has been declared that a Territorial Legislature has no constitutional right to
exclude slavery.  And I have argued and said that for men who did intend that the people of
the Territory should have the right to exclude slavery absolutely and unconditionally, the
voting down of Chase's amendment is wholly inexplicable.  It is a puzzle--a riddle.  But I
have said that with men who did look forward to such a decision, or who had it in contemplation,
that such a decision of the Supreme Court would or might be made, the voting down of that amendment
would be perfectly rational and intelligible.  It would keep Congress from coming in collision
with the decision when it was made.  Anybody can conceive that if there was an intention or
expectation that such a decision was to follow, it would not be a very desirable party attitude
to get into for the Supreme Court--all or nearly all its members belonging to the same party--to
decide one way, when the party in Congress had decided the other way.  Hence it would be very
rational for men expecting such a decision to keep the niche in that law clear for it.  After
pointing this out, I tell Judge Douglas that it looks to me as though here was the reason why
Chase's amendment was voted down.  I tell him that as he did it, and knows why he did it, if
it was done for a reason different from this, he knows what that reason was, and can tell us
what it was.  I tell him, also, it will be vastly more satisfactory to the country for him
to give some other plausible, intelligible reason why it was voted down than to stand upon
his dignity and call people liars.  Well, on Saturday he did make his answer, and what do you
think it was?  He says if I had only taken upon myself to tell the whole truth about that amendment
of Chase's, no explanation would have been necessary on his part--or words to that effect.
Now, I say here that I am quite unconscious of having suppressed anything material to the case,
and I am very frank to admit if there is any sound reason other than that which appeared to
me material, it is quite fair for him to present it.  What reason does he propose?  That when
Chase came forward with his amendment expressly authorizing the people to exclude slavery from
the limits of every Territory, General Cass proposed to Chase, if he (Chase) would add to his
amendment that the people should have the power to introduce or exclude, they would let it
go.  This is substantially all of his reply. And because Chase would not do that they voted
his amendment down. Well, it turns out, I believe, upon examination, that General Cass took
some part in the little running debate upon that amendment, and then ran away and did not vote
on it at all.  Is not that the fact?  So confident, as I think, was General Cass that there
was a snake somewhere about, he chose to run away from the whole thing.  This is an inference
I draw from the fact that, though he took part in the debate, his name does not appear in the
ayes and noes.  But does Judge Douglas's reply amount to a satisfactory answer?  [Cries of
"Yes," "Yes," and "No," "No."]  There is some little difference of opinion here.  But I ask
attention to a few more views bearing on the question of whether it amounts to a satisfactory
answer.  The men who were determined that that amendment should not get into the bill, and
spoil the place where the Dred Scott decision was to come in, sought an excuse to get rid of
it somewhere.  One of these ways--one of these excuses--was to ask Chase to add to his proposed
amendment a provision that the people might introduce slavery if they wanted to.  They very
well knew Chase would do no such thing--that Mr. Chase was one of the men differing from them
on the broad principle of his insisting that freedom was better than slavery--a man who would
not consent to enact a law, penned with his own hand, by which he was made to recognize slavery
on the one hand and liberty on the other as precisely equal; and when they insisted on his
doing this, they very well knew they insisted on that which he would not for a moment think
of doing, and that they were only bluffing him.  I believe--I have not, since he made his answer,
had a chance to examine the journals or Congressional Globe, and therefore speak from memory--I
believe the state of the bill at that time, according to parliamentary rules, was such that
no member could propose an additional amendment to Chase's amendment.  I rather think this
the truth--the Judge shakes his head.  Very well.  I would, like to know then, if they wanted
Chase's amendment fixed over, why somebody else could not have offered to do it.  If they wanted
it amended, why did they not offer the amendment?  Why did they stand there taunting and quibbling
at Chase?  Why did they not put it in themselves?  But, to put it on the other ground: suppose
that there was such an amendment offered and Chase's was an amendment to an amendment; until
one is disposed of by parliamentary law, you cannot pile another on.  Then all these gentlemen
had to do was to vote Chase's on, and then, in the amended form in which the whole stood, add
their own amendment to it if they wanted to put it in that shape.  This was all they were obliged
to do, and the ayes and noes show that there were thirty-six who voted it down, against ten
who voted in favor of it. The thirty-six held entire sway and control.  They could in some
form or other have put that bill in the exact shape they wanted.  If there was a rule preventing
their amending it at the time, they could pass that, and then, Chase's amendment being merged,
put it in the shape they wanted.  They did not choose to do so, but they went into a quibble
with Chase to get him to add what they knew he would not add, and because he would not, they
stand upon that flimsy pretext for voting down what they argued was the meaning and intent
of their own bill.  They left room thereby for this Dred Scott decision, which goes very far
to make slavery national throughout the United States.

I pass one or two points I have because my time will very soon expire, but I must be allowed
to say that Judge Douglas recurs again, as he did upon one of two other occasions, to the enormity
of Lincoln--an insignificant individual like Lincoln--upon his ipse dixit charging a conspiracy
upon a large number of members of Congress, the Supreme Court, and two Presidents, to nationalize
slavery.  I want to say that, in the first place, I have made no charge of this sort upon my
ipse dixit.  I have only arrayed the evidence tending to prove it, and presented it to the
understanding of others, saying what I think it proves, but giving you the means of judging
whether it proves it or not.  This is precisely what I have done.  I have not placed it upon
my ipse dixit at all.  On this occasion, I wish to recall his attention to a piece of evidence
which I brought forward at Ottawa on Saturday, showing that he had made substantially the same
charge against substantially the same persons, excluding his dear self from the category. 
I ask him to give some attention to the evidence which I brought forward, that he himself had
discovered a "fatal blow being struck" against the right of the people to exclude slavery from
their limits, which fatal blow he assumed as in evidence in an article in the Washington Union,
published "by authority."  I ask by whose authority?  He discovers a similar or identical provision
in the Lecompton Constitution.  Made by whom?  The framers of that constitution.  Advocated
by whom?  By all the members of the party in the nation who advocated the introduction of Kansas
into the Union under the Lecompton Constitution.

I have asked his attention to the evidence that he arrayed to prove that such a fatal blow
was being struck, and to the facts which he brought forward in support of that charge--being
identical with the one which he thinks so villainous in me.  He pointed it not at a newspaper
editor merely, but at the President and his Cabinet, and the members of Congress advocating
the Lecompton Constitution, and those framing that instrument.  I must again be permitted to
remind him, that although my ipse dixit may not be as great as his, yet it somewhat reduces
the force of his calling my attention to the enormity of my making a like charge against him.

Go on, Judge Douglas.

FAREWELL ADDRESS AT SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS, FEBRUARY 12, 1861

My Friends: No one not in my position can appreciate the sadness I feel at this parting.  To
this people I owe all that I am.  Here I have lived more than a quarter of a century; here
my children were born, and here one of them lies buried.  I know not how soon I shall see you
again.  A duty devolves upon me which is, perhaps, greater than that which has devolved upon
any other man since the days of Washington.  He never could have succeeded except for the aid
of Divine Providence, upon which he at all times relied.  I feel that I cannot succeed without
the same Divine Aid which sustained him; and in the same Almighty Being I place my reliance
for support; and I hope you, my friends, will all pray that I may receive that Divine Assistance,
without which I cannot succeed, but with which success is certain. Again I bid you all an affectionate
farewell.  To this place, and the kindness of these people, I owe everything.  Here I have
lived a quarter of a century, and have passed from a young to an old man.  Here my children
have been born and one is buried.  I now leave, not knowing when or whether ever I may return,
with a task before me greater than that which rested upon Washington.  Without the assistance
of that Divine Being who ever attended him, I cannot succeed.  With that assistance, I cannot
fail. Trusting in Him, who can go with me and remain with you, and be everywhere for good;
let us confidently hope that all will yet be well. To His care commending you, as I hope in
your prayers you will commend me, I bid you an affectionate farewell.  [Cries of "No, no."]
But I have said nothing but what I am willing to live by, and, if it be the pleasure of Almighty
God, to die by.

RESPONSE TO A SERENADE, MARCH 4, 1861

Fellow Citizens: I thank you for this visit.  I thank you that you call upon me, not in any
sectional spirit, but that you come, without distinction of party, to pay your respects to
the President of the United States.  I am informed that you are mostly citizens of New York.
[Cries of "all," "all."]  You all appear to be very happy.  May I hope that the public expression
which I have this day given to my sentiments, may have contributed in some degree to your happiness.
[Emphatic exclamations of assent.]  As far as I am concerned, the loyal citizens of every State,
and of every section, shall have no cause to feel any other sentiment.  [Cries of "good," "good."]
As towards the disaffected portions of our fellow-citizens, I will say, as every good man throughout
the country must feel, that there will be more rejoicing over one sheep that is lost, and is
found, than over the ninety and nine which have not gone astray.  [Great cheering.]  And now,
my friends, as I have risen from the dinner-table to see you, you will excuse me for the brevity
of my remarks, and permit me again to thank you heartily and cordially for the pleasant visit,
as I rejoin those who await my return.

May God give you that consolation which is beyond all earthly power.

Sincerely your friend in a common affliction,

A. LINCOLN.

LETTER TO HORACE GREELEY

Executive Mansion, Washington, August 22, 1862.

Hon. Horace Greeley:

Dear Sir:  I have just read yours of the 19th, addressed to myself through the N. Y. Tribune.
If there be in it any statements or assumptions of fact which I may know to be erroneous, I
do not now and here controvert them.  If there be in it any inferences which I may believe
to be falsely drawn, I do not now and here argue against them. If there be perceptible in it
an impatient and dictatorial tone, I waive it in deference to an old friend, whose heart I
have always supposed to be right.

As to the policy I "seem to be pursuing," as you say, I have not meant to leave any one in doubt.

I would save the Union.  I would save it in the shortest way under the Constitution.

The sooner the National authority can be restored, the nearer the Union will be "the Union
as it was."

If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time save Slavery,
I do not agree with them.  If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could
at the same time destroy Slavery, I do not agree with them.  My paramount object in this struggle
is to save the Union, and is not either to save or to destroy Slavery.  If I could save the
Union without freeing any slave, I would do it; if I could save it by freeing all the slaves,
I would do it; and if I could save it by freeing some and leaving others alone, I would also
do that.  What I do about Slavery and the colored race, I do because I believe it helps to
save this Union; and what I forbear, I forbear because I do not believe it would help to save
the Union.  I shall do less whenever I shall believe that what I am doing hurts the cause,
and I shall do more whenever I shall believe doing more will help the cause.  I shall try to
correct errors when shown to be errors; and I shall adopt new views as fast as they shall appear
to be true views.

I have here stated my purpose according to my views of official duty; and I intend no modification
of my oft-expressed personal wish that all men, everywhere could be free.  Yours,

A. LINCOLN.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Washington, Dec. 1, 1862.

"That the Executive will, on the first day of January aforesaid, by proclamation, designate
the States and parts of States, if any, in which the people thereof respectively shall then
be in rebellion against the United States; and the fact that any State, or the people thereof,
shall on that day be in good faith represented in the Congress of the United States by members
chosen thereto at elections wherein a majority of the qualified voters of such State shall
have participated, shall in the absence of strong countervailing testimony be deemed conclusive
evidence that such State and the people thereof are not then in rebellion against the United
States."

Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, by virtue of the power
in me vested as commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United States, in time of actual
armed rebellion against the authority and government of the United States, and as a fit and
necessary war measure for suppressing said rebellion, do, on this first day of January, in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and in accordance with my
purpose so to do, publicly proclaimed for the full period of 100 days from the day first above
mentioned, order and designate as the States and parts of States wherein the people thereof,
respectively, are this day in rebellion against the United States, the following, to wit:--

Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana (except the parishes of St. Bernard, Plaquemines, Jefferson, St.
John, St. Charles, St. James, Ascension, Assumption, Terre Bonne, Lafourche, St. Mary, St.
Martin, and Orleans, including the city of New Orleans), Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia,
South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia (except the forty-eight counties designated as
West Virginia, and also the counties of Berkeley, Accomac, Northampton, Elizabeth City, York,
Princess Ann, and Norfolk, including the cities of Norfolk and Portsmouth), and which excepted
parts are for the present left precisely as if this proclamation were not issued.

And I hereby enjoin upon the people so declared to be free to abstain from all violence, unless
in necessary self-defence, and I recommend to them that, in all cases when allowed, they labor
faithfully for reasonable wages.

And I further declare and make known that such persons of suitable condition will be received
into the armed service of the United States to garrison forts, positions, stations, and other
places, and to man vessels of all sorts in said service.

And upon this act, sincerely believed to be an act of justice, warranted by the Constitution
upon military necessity, I invoke the considerate judgment of mankind and the gracious favor
of Almighty God.

THANKSGIVING PROCLAMATION, JULY 15, 1863

It has pleased Almighty God to hearken to the supplications and prayers of an afflicted people,
and to vouchsafe to the army and navy of the United States victories on land and on the sea
so signal and so effective as to furnish reasonable grounds for augmented confidence that the
union of these States will be maintained, their Constitution preserved, and their peace and
prosperity permanently restored.  But these victories have been accorded not without sacrifices
of life, limb, health, and liberty, incurred by brave, loyal, and patriotic citizens.  Domestic
affliction in every part of the country follows in the train of these fearful bereavements.
It is meet and right to recognize and confess the presence of the Almighty Father, and the
power of His hand equally in these triumphs and in these sorrows.

Now, therefore, be it known that I do set apart Thursday, the 6th day of August next, to be
observed as a day for national thanksgiving, praise, and prayer, and I invite the people of
the United States to assemble on that occasion in their customary places of worship, and, in
the forms approved by their own consciences, render the homage due to the Divine Majesty for
the wonderful things He has done in the nation's behalf, and invoke the influence of His Holy
Spirit to subdue the anger which has produced and so long sustained a needless and cruel rebellion,
to change the hearts of the insurgents, to guide the counsels of the government with wisdom,
adequate to so great a national emergency, and to visit with tender care and consolation throughout
the length and breadth of our land all those who, through the vicissitudes of marches, voyages,
battles, and sieges have been brought to suffer in mind, body, or estate, and finally to lead
the whole nation through the paths of repentance and submission to the Divine Will back to
the perfect enjoyment of union and fraternal peace.

LETTER TO J. C. CONKLING

Executive Mansion,

Washington, August 26, 1863.

Hon. James C. Conkling:

My dear Sir: Your letter inviting me to attend a mass-meeting of unconditional Union men, to
be held at the capital of Illinois on the 3d day of September, has been received.  It would
be very agreeable to me to thus meet my old friends at my own home; but I cannot just now be
absent from here so long as a visit there would require.

The meeting is to be of all those who maintain unconditional devotion to the Union; and I am
sure my old political friends will thank me for tendering, as I do, the nation's gratitude
to those and other noble men whom no partizan malice or partizan hope can make false to the
nation's life.

There are those who are dissatisfied with me.  To such I would say: You desire peace, and you
blame me that we do not have it.  But how can we attain it?  There are but three conceivable
ways:  First, to suppress the rebellion by force of arms.  This I am trying to do.  Are you
for it?  If you are, so far we are agreed.  If you are not for it, a second way is to give
up the Union.  I am against this.  Are you for it?  If you are, you should say so plainly.
If you are not for force, nor yet for dissolution, there only remains some imaginable compromise.
I do not believe that any compromise embracing the maintenance of the Union is now possible.
All I learn leads to a directly opposite belief.  The strength of the rebellion is its military,
its army.  That army dominates all the country and all the people within its range.  Any offer
of terms made by any man or men within that range, in opposition to that army, is simply nothing
for the present, because such man or men have no power whatever to enforce their side of a
compromise, if one were made with them.

To illustrate: Suppose refugees from the South and peace men of the North get together in convention,
and frame and proclaim a compromise embracing a restoration of the Union.  In what way can
that compromise be used to keep Lee's army out of Pennsylvania?  Meade's army can keep Lee's
army out of Pennsylvania, and, I think, can ultimately drive it out of existence.  But no paper
compromise to which the controllers of Lee's army are not agreed can at all affect that army.
In an effort at such compromise we should waste time which the enemy would improve to our disadvantage;
and that would be all.  A compromise, to be effective, must be made either with those who control
the rebel army, or with the people first liberated from the domination of that army by the
success of our own army.  Now, allow me to assure you that no word or intimation from that
rebel army, or from any of the men controlling it, in relation to any peace compromise, has
ever come to my knowledge or belief.  All charges and insinuations to the contrary are deceptive
and groundless.  And I promise you that if any such proposition shall hereafter come, it shall
not be rejected and kept a secret from you.  I freely acknowledge myself the servant of the
people, according to the bond of service,--the United States Constitution,--and that, as such,
I am responsible to them.

But to be plain.  You are dissatisfied with me about the negro.  Quite likely there is a difference
of opinion between you and myself upon that subject.  I certainly wish that all men could be
free, while I suppose you do not.  Yet I have neither adopted nor proposed any measure which
is not consistent with even your views, provided you are for the Union.  I suggested compensated
emancipation, to which you replied you wished not to be taxed to buy negroes.  But I had not
asked you to be taxed to buy negroes, except in such way as to save you from greater taxation
to save the Union exclusively by other means.

You dislike the Emancipation Proclamation, and perhaps would have it retracted.  You say it
is unconstitutional.  I think differently.  I think the Constitution invests its commander-in-chief
with the law of war in time of war.  The most that can be said--if so much--is, that slaves
are property.  Is there, has there ever been, any question that, by the law of war, property,
both of enemies and friends, may be taken when needed? And is it not needed whenever taking
it helps us or hurts the enemy?  Armies, the world over, destroy enemies' property when they
cannot use it, and even destroy their own to keep it from the enemy. Civilized belligerents
do all in their power to help themselves or hurt the enemy, except a few things regarded as
barbarous or cruel.  Among the exceptions are the massacre of vanquished foes and non-combatants,
male and female.

But the Proclamation, as law, either is valid or is not valid.  If it is not valid, it needs
no retraction.  If it is valid, it cannot be retracted any more than the dead can be brought
to life.  Some of you profess to think its retraction would operate favorably for the Union.
Why better after the retraction than before the issue?  There was more than a year and a half
of trial to suppress the rebellion before the Proclamation issued, the last one hundred days
of which passed under an explicit notice that it was coming, unless averted by those in revolt
returning to their allegiance.  The war has certainly progressed as favorably for us since
the issue of the Proclamation as before.

I know, as fully as one can know the opinions of others, that some of the commanders of our
armies in the field who have given us our most important successes, believe the emancipation
policy and the use of colored troops constitute the heaviest blow yet dealt to the rebellion,
and that at least one of these important successes could not have been achieved when it was
but for the aid of black soldiers.  Among the commanders holding these views are some who have
never had any affinity with what is called "Abolitionism," or with "Republican party politics,"
but who hold them purely as military opinions.  I submit their opinions as being entitled to
some weight against the objections often urged that emancipation and arming the blacks are
unwise as military measures, and were not adopted as such in good faith.

You say you will not fight to free negroes.  Some of them seem willing to fight for you; but
no matter.  Fight you, then, exclusively, to save the Union.  I issued the Proclamation on
purpose to aid you in saving the Union.  Whenever you shall have conquered all resistance to
the Union, if I shall urge you to continue fighting, it will be an apt time then for you to
declare you will not fight to free negroes.

I thought that in your struggle for the Union, to whatever extent the negroes should cease
helping the enemy, to that extent it weakened the enemy in his resistance to you.  Do you think
differently?  I thought that whatever negroes can be got to do as soldiers, leaves just so
much less for white soldiers to do in saving the Union.  Does it appear otherwise to you? 
But negroes, like other people, act upon motives. Why should they do anything for us if we
will do nothing for them?  If they stake their lives for us they must be prompted by the strongest
motive, even the promise of freedom.  And the promise being made, must be kept.

The signs look better.  The Father of Waters again goes unvexed to the sea.  Thanks to the
great Northwest for it.  Nor yet wholly to them. Three hundred miles up they met New England,
Empire, Keystone, and Jersey, hewing their way right and left.  The sunny South, too, in more
colors than one, also lent a hand.  On the spot, their part of the history was jotted down
in black and white.  The job was a great national one, and let none be banned who bore an honorable
part in it. And while those who have cleared the great river may well be proud, even that is
not all.  It is hard to say that anything has been more bravely and well done than at Antietam,
Murfreesboro, Gettysburg, and on many fields of lesser note.  Nor must Uncle Sam's webfeet
be forgotten.  At all the watery margins they have been present.  Not only on the deep sea,
the broad bay, and the rapid river, but also up the narrow, muddy bayou, and wherever the ground
was a little damp, they have been and made their tracks.  Thanks to all,--for the great Republic,
for the principle it lives by and keeps alive, for man's vast future,--thanks to all.

Peace does not appear so distant as it did.  I hope it will come soon, and come to stay; and
so come as to be worth the keeping in all future time.  It will then have been proved that
among freemen there can be no successful appeal from the ballot to the bullet, and that they
who take such appeal are sure to lose their case and pay the cost.  And then there will be
some black men who can remember that with silent tongue, and clenched teeth, and steady eye,
and well-poised bayonet, they have helped mankind on to this great consummation, while I fear
there will be some white ones unable to forget that with malignant heart and deceitful speech
they strove to hinder it.

Still, let us not be over-sanguine of a speedy, final triumph.  Let us be quite sober.  Let
us diligently apply the means, never doubting that a just God, in His own good time, will give
us the rightful result.

Yours very truly,

A. LINCOLN.

Yours very sincerely and respectfully,

A. LINCOLN.  The prayers of both could not be answered--that of neither has been answered fully.

The Almighty has his own purposes.  "Woe unto the world because of offences! for it must needs
be that offences come; but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh."

LAST PUBLIC ADDRESS, APRIL 11, 1865

We meet this evening not in sorrow, but in gladness of heart.  The evacuation of Petersburg
and Richmond, and the surrender of the principal insurgent army, give hope of a righteous and
speedy peace, whose joyous expression cannot be restrained.  In the midst of this, however,
He from whom all blessings flow, must not be forgotten.  A call for a national thanksgiving
is being prepared, and will be duly promulgated.  Nor must those whose harder part give us
the cause of rejoicing be overlooked.  Their honors must not be parcelled out with others.
I myself was near the front, and had the high pleasure of transmitting much of the good news
to you; but no part of the honor for plan or execution is mine.  To General Grant, his skilful
officers and brave men, all belongs.  The gallant navy stood ready, but was not in reach to
take active part.

By these recent successes the reinauguration of the national authority--reconstruction--which
has had a large share of thought from the first, is pressed much more closely upon our attention.
It is fraught with great difficulty.  Unlike a case of war between independent nations, there
is no authorized organ for us to treat with. No one man has authority to give up the rebellion
for any other man. We simply must begin with and mold from disorganized and discordant elements.
Nor is it a small additional embarrassment that we, the loyal people, differ among ourselves
as to the mode, manner, and measure of reconstruction.

As a general rule, I abstain from reading the reports of attacks upon myself, wishing not to
be provoked by that to which I cannot properly offer an answer.  In spite of this precaution,
however, it comes to my knowledge that I am much censured for some supposed agency in setting
up and seeking to sustain the new State Government of Louisiana.  In this I have done just
so much as, and no more than, the public knows. In the annual message of December, 1863, and
in the accompanying proclamation, I presented a plan of reconstruction, as the phrase goes,
which I promised, if adopted by any State, should be acceptable to and sustained by the executive
government of the nation.  I distinctly stated that this was not the only plan which might
possibly be acceptable, and I also distinctly protested that the executive claimed no right
to say when or whether members should be admitted to seats in Congress from such States.  This
plan was, in advance, submitted to the then Cabinet, and distinctly approved by every member
of it.  One of them suggested that I should then and in that connection apply the Emancipation
Proclamation to the theretofore excepted parts of Virginia and Louisiana; that I should drop
the suggestion about apprenticeship for freed people, and that I should omit the protest against
my own power in regard to the admission of members to Congress.  But even he approved every
part and parcel of the plan which has since been employed or touched by the action of Louisiana.

The new Constitution of Louisiana, declaring emancipation for the whole State, practically
applies the proclamation to the part previously excepted.  It does not adopt apprenticeship
for freed people, and it is silent, as it could not well be otherwise, about the admission
of members to Congress.  So that, as it applies to Louisiana, every member of the cabinet fully
approved the plan.  The message went to Congress, and I received many commendations of the
plan, written and verbal, and not a single objection to it from any professed emancipationist
came to my knowledge until after the news reached Washington that the people of Louisiana had
began to move in accordance with it.  From about July, 1862, I had corresponded with different
persons supposed to be interested [in] seeking a reconstruction of a State government for Louisiana.
When the message of 1863, with the plan before mentioned, reached New Orleans, General Banks
wrote me he was confident that the people, with his military cooperation, would reconstruct
substantially on that plan.  I wrote him and some of them to try it.  They tried it, and the
result is known.  Such only has been my agency in getting up the Louisiana government.  As
to sustaining it, my promise is out, as before stated.  But as bad promises are better broken
than kept, I shall treat this as a bad promise, and break it whenever I shall be convinced
that keeping it is adverse to the public interest; but I have not yet been so convinced.

I have been shown a letter on this subject, supposed to be an able one, in which the writer
expresses regret that my mind has not seemed to be definitely fixed on the question whether
the seceded States, so called, are in the Union or out of it.  It would, perhaps, add astonishment
to his regret were he to learn that since I have found professed Union men endeavoring to make
that question, I have purposely forborne any public expression upon it.  As appears to me,
that question has not been, nor yet is, a practically material one, and that any discussion
of it, while it thus remains practically immaterial, could have no effect other than the mischievous
one of dividing our friends.  As yet, whatever it may hereafter become, that question is bad
as the basis of a controversy, and good for nothing at all--a merely pernicious abstraction.

We all agree that the seceded States, so called, are out of their proper practical relation
with the Union, and that the sole object of the government, civil and military, in regard to
those States is to again get them into that proper practical relation.  I believe that it is
not only possible, but in fact easier, to do; this without deciding or even considering whether
these States have ever been out of the Union, than with it.  Finding themselves safely at home,
it would be utterly immaterial whether they had ever been abroad.  Let us all join in doing
the acts necessary to restoring the proper practical relations between these States and the
Union, and each forever after innocently, indulge his own opinion whether in doing the acts
he brought the States from without into the Union, or only gave them proper assistance, they
never having been out of it.

The amount of constituency, so to speak, on which the new Louisiana government rests, would
be more satisfactory to all if it contained 50,000, or 30,000, or even 20,000, instead of only
about 12,000, as it really does.  It is also unsatisfactory to some that the elective franchise
is not given to the colored man.  I would myself prefer that it were now conferred on the very
intelligent, and on those who serve our cause as soldiers.  Still, the question is not whether
the Louisiana government, as it stands, is quite all that is desirable. The question is, will
it be wiser to take it as it is and help to improve it, or to reject and disperse it?  Can
Louisiana be brought into proper practical relation with the Union sooner by sustaining or
by discarding her new State government?

Some twelve thousand voters in the heretofore slave State of Louisiana have sworn allegiance
to the Union, assumed to be the rightful political power of the State, held elections, organized
a State government, adopted a free-State constitution, giving the benefit of public schools
equally to black and white, and empowering the Legislature to confer the elective franchise
upon the colored man. Their Legislature has already voted to ratify the constitutional amendment
recently passed by Congress, abolishing slavery throughout the nation.  These twelve thousand
persons are thus fully committed to the Union and to perpetual freedom in the State--committed
to the very things, and nearly all the things, the nation wants--and they ask the nation's
recognition and its assistance to make good their committal.

Now, if we reject and spurn them, we do our utmost to disorganize and disperse them.  We, in
effect, say to the white man: You are worthless or worse; we will neither help you, nor be
helped by you.  To the blacks we say: This cup of Liberty which these, your old masters, hold
to your lips we will dash from you, and leave you to the chances of gathering the spilled and
scattered contents in some vague and undefined when, where, and how.  If this course, discouraging
and paralyzing both white and black, has any tendency to bring Louisiana into proper practical
relations with the Union, I have so far been unable to perceive it.  If, on the contrary, we
recognize and sustain the new government of Louisiana, the converse of all this is made true.
We encourage the hearts and nerve the arms of the twelve thousand to adhere to their work,
and argue for it, and proselyte for it, and fight for it, and feed it, and grow it, and ripen
it to a complete success. The colored man too, in seeing all united for him, is inspired with
vigilance, and energy, and daring, to the same end.  Grant that he desires the elective franchise,
will he not attain it sooner by saving the already advanced steps toward it than by running
backward over them?  Concede that the new government of Louisiana is only to what it should
be as the egg is to the fowl, we shall sooner have the fowl by hatching the egg than by smashing
it.

Again, if we reject Louisiana we also reject one vote in favor of the proposed amendment to
the national Constitution.  To meet this proposition it has been argued that no more than three-fourths
of those States which have not attempted secession are necessary to validly ratify the amendment.
I do not commit myself against this further than to say that such a ratification would be questionable,
and sure to be persistently questioned, while a ratification by three-fourths of all the States
would be unquestioned and unquestionable.  What has been said of Louisiana will apply generally
to other States.  And yet so great peculiarities pertain to each State, and such important
and sudden changes occur in the same State, and withal so new and unprecedented is the whole
case that no exclusive and inflexible plan can safely be prescribed as to details and collaterals.
Such exclusive and inflexible plan would surely become a new entanglement.  Important principles
may and must be inflexible.

In the present situation, as the phrase goes, it may be my duty to make some new announcement
to the people of the South.  I am considering, and shall not fail to act when satisfied that
action will be proper.

NOTES

COMMUNICATION TO THE PEOPLE OF SANGAMON COUNTY

This announcement of political principles appeared in the Sangamon Journal, at that time the
only newspaper published in Springfield. The present text, which differs in some details from
that found in the various editions of Lincoln's works, follows the original, except in changing
the spelling of Sangamo to Sangamon.

PERPETUATION OF OUR POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS.

On the close of the address resolutions were passed requesting the author to furnish a copy
to the press, but for some unexplained reason it was not published until a year later.  The
present text is taken from the Sangamon Journal.  Lincoln was one of the organizers of the Lyceum.

All through his life Lincoln showed a marked respect for the law, and the present warning against
the consequences of lawlessness, so rhetorically sounded by the young orator of twenty-eight,
was a perfectly sincere expression of a profound conviction.

"The gates of hell."  Matthew xvi. 18.  This quotation was repeated in a speech delivered at
Indianapolis twenty-four years later, when civil war was threatening.

THE SPRINGFIELD SPEECH

During the summer of 1858 Lincoln delivered two important anti-slavery speeches at Springfield.
The first and more important of these was made June 16,[*] at the close of the Republican State
Convention, at which Lincoln was declared the party candidate for the United States Senate.
The second, delivered a month later, is in part a defence and explanation of the earlier speech,
which had been severely criticised by Lincoln's old opponent Judge Douglas.  The first Springfield
speech was very carefully prepared and the MS. was submitted to several of Lincoln's friends,
all of whom objected to the opening statement as being impolitic and sure to lose the speaker
the position for which he was a candidate.  Lincoln refused to make any change, however, saying
that he preferred to go down linked with truth, if that was necessary.

[*]By Herndon the date is given as June 17.

"A house divided against itself."  Suggested by Matthew xii. 25, and Mark iii. 25.  This quotation
had already been used in 1843 in a Whig circular signed by Lincoln and two others, and in a
letter written in 1863 Lincoln speaks of the government as a house divided against itself.

Nebraska doctrine.  The doctrine of "squatter sovereignty" was recognized in the bill, introduced
in the Senate January 4, 1854, by Douglas, to give territorial government to the district west
of Missouri and Iowa known as Nebraska.  A similar bill had been introduced the year before
by Douglas.  In its original form the bill contained no reference to the repeal of the Missouri
Compromise, but in the form in which it was passed it declared the Missouri Compromise to be
null and void.  Under the terms of this compromise slavery had been restricted to the territory
south of 36 degrees 30 minutes.

Dred Scott decision.  This decision was rendered March 6, 1857.

Silliman letter.  A statement on the situation in Kansas by the electors of Connecticut, which
received its name from Professor Silliman of Yale College, by whom it was in the main drawn up.

Lecompton Constitution.  In 1857 a convention was held at Lecompton, Kan., to draw up a state
constitution.  In this convention the advocates of slavery were in the majority and the instrument
was so prepared as not to interfere with slavery wherever it already existed in the territory.
The free-soil advocates refused to accept this constitution.  When the question of admitting
Kansas under the Lecompton Constitution was presented before Congress, Douglas, in accordance
with his principles of popular sovereignty, broke with his party and opposed the effort.  From
our present point of view Lincoln does not seem to do Douglas justice.

Stephen, Franklin, etc.  The reference is to Stephen A. Douglas, President Franklin Pierce,
Chief Justice Roger B. Taney, and James Buchanan.  Lincoln's perfectly sincere belief in a
deliberate conspiracy among these men to perpetuate slavery, which was shared by many Republicans
of that time, is not sustained by the impartial investigations of later historians.

McLean or Curtis.  John McLean and Benjamin R. Curtis were the only justices who were strongly
opposed to the Dred Scott decision.  Curtis, who was a Whig from Massachusetts and who resigned
the same year, wrote a minority decision.

Chase and Mace.  Salmon P. Chase was at that time Senator from Ohio. Daniel Mace was a Democrat
representative, who was opposed to the Nebraska Bill.

Judge Nelson.  Samuel Nelson, a justice of the Supreme Court.

"A living dog is better than a dead lion."  Ecclesiastes ix. 4.

THE FREEPORT DEBATE.

The Lincoln-Douglas Joint Debates took place in seven towns in various parts of Illinois between
August 21 and October 15, 1858.  The proposal for these meetings was made by Lincoln in a note
addressed to Douglas. The length of each debate and the division of time between the speakers
are stated in the opening sentence of the speech given in the text. The speeches, which were
all extempore, as far as the actual form is concerned, were later collected from the newspaper
reports, and after some slight revision by the authors were published in 1860 in Columbus,
Ohio.  This volume, from which the present text is taken, contained in addition a number of
speeches delivered by Lincoln and Douglas earlier in 1858 and two speeches made by Lincoln
in Ohio in 1859.  Lincoln's statement at the close of a letter to the publishers, accompanying
the copy for the book, is characteristic and interesting: "I wish the reprint to be precisely
as the copies I send, without any comment whatever."  This Columbus issue was used as a Republican
campaign document and large numbers were sold.

The Freeport Debate, the second in the series, was held on the afternoon of August 27.  With
the exception of the Galesburg Debate, it was the most largely attended of the seven meetings,
and in its effect upon the campaign it is now regarded as the most important.

Judge Douglas and myself.  In the informal speeches Lincoln frequently committed errors of
speech like this.  Even during the presidential period he shows a marked tendency to use the
cleft infinitive.  But in the carefully written addresses the language is almost always correct.

Fugitive Slave law.  This statute was passed in 1850 for the stricter regulation of the return
of escaped slaves to their owners.  In his answer to this question Lincoln showed clearly that
he was not an Abolitionist, as that term was then understood.

Question 2.  Douglas' reply to this question was as follows: "I answer emphatically, as Mr.
Lincoln has heard me answer a hundred times from every stump in Illinois that in my opinion
the people of a territory can, by lawful means, exclude slavery from their limits prior to
the formation of a State Constitution."  It is claimed that this question was put by Lincoln
in spite of the protests of several of his friends, who believed that it would give Douglas
an advantage.  But here, as in the equally feared Springfield Speech, Lincoln proved his superior
sagacity.  Douglas' affirmative answer probably gained him the senatorship, but it certainly
lost him the presidency two years later.

First Republican State Convention.  The reference is to a meeting held in Springfield, which
was addressed by Owen Lovejoy.  Lincoln was not present on this occasion.  Recent investigation
seems to show that there was no foundation for the charge that this was exclusively a meeting
of Abolitionists, but that it included many men who held the same political views as Lincoln.
Douglas honestly believed that the resolutions read by him at the Ottawa meeting were genuine
and he was greatly chagrined at the mistake.

By an amendment.  This amendment was offered by Douglas.

THE COOPER INSTITUTE ADDRESS.

This address, Lincoln's first important direct message to the people of the East, was very
carefully prepared.  The text in this volume is taken from The Tribune Tract, issued as a campaign
document.

The Northwestern Territory.  The district comprising the present States of Ohio, Illinois,
Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin, had been ceded to the national government by the original States.

"Black Republicans."  Douglas constantly referred to his opponents under this title.  In the
Ottawa Debate he affirmed that in 1854 Lincoln and Trumbull had arranged to form "an Abolition
party, under the name and disguise of a Republican party."

"Popular sovereignty."  This principle is defined by Douglas as follows: "My principle is to
recognize each State of the Union as independent, sovereign, and equal in its sovereignty."

Harper's Ferry! John Brown!  John Brown was a New Englander, who had taken an active part in
the Kansas disorders in 1856.  During the summer of 1859 he engaged in an attempt to free the
slaves of Virginia. After capturing the Arsenal at Harper's Ferry, he was overpowered by a
body of marines and with the survivors of his "army," was hanged.  By the extreme anti-slavery
people he was regarded as a martyr, the best expression of this spirit being given by Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe's "Battle Hymn of the Republic."  In a speech in Congress of January 16, 1860,
Senator Douglas had stated his "firm and deliberate conviction that the Harper's Ferry crime
was the natural, logical, inevitable result of the doctrines and teachings of the Republican
party."

The Southampton insurrection.  The reference is to a slave insurrection which occurred in 1831
in Southampton, Va.

Helper's Book.  Hinton P. Helper, a North Carolinian of the so-called poor white class, was
the author of a book on the effects of slavery, entitled The Impending Crisis in the South.
The special reference is to the recent agreement among sixty-four Republican representatives
to publish a compendium of the book for circulation in doubtful States.

THE FAREWELL SPEECH.

This beautiful little address was delivered from the platform of the car that bore the President-elect
away from his old home.  It has been preserved in two slightly differing versions, neither
of which probably exactly reproduces the words used.  The Springfield papers, which were followed
by Herndon, gave an inaccurate report that robbed the speech of much of its rare beauty.

THE FIRST INAUGURAL ADDRESS.

The First Inaugural was carefully written in Springfield a month before its delivery.  Contrary
to his usual practice in public speaking, Lincoln read from the MS.  The address was enthusiastically
received by an immense audience assembled front of the Capitol and the general impression produced
at the North was favorable.  By the Southern and the Abolition press it was severely criticised,
both with regard to its form and its content.

The mystic chords of memory.  This passage was suggested by Mr. Seward, to whom the address
had been submitted for criticism.  The customary usury of genius was paid for the verbal loan.

RESPONSE TO SERENADE.

This speech was delivered before a delegation of New Yorkers, who called at the White House
on the evening of March 4.  Two other similar responses have been preserved from the same day.
The present address is reprinted here for the first time, from the New York Times.

LETTER TO HORACE GREELEY.

Greeley's letter of August 19, which was headed "The Prayer of Twenty Millions," began as follows:
"I do not intrude to tell you--for you must know already--that a great proportion of those
who triumphed in your election, and of all who desire the unqualified suppression of the Rebellion
now desolating our country, are sorely disappointed and deeply pained by the policy you seem
to be pursuing."  That Lincoln had good reason to complain of "an impatient and dictatorial
tone" is sufficiently shown by the closing sentence, "I entreat you to render hearty and unequivocal
obedience to the laws of the land."  The following issue of the Tribune contained a long editorial
on the same subject.  The influence of the Tribune in the Northern States was immense, and
Lincoln realized the importance of making a clear statement of his policy to its readers.

SECOND ANNUAL MESSAGE TO CONGRESS.

After a long statement about the conditions of the finances and of the different departments,
the President devoted the remainder of the space to the discussion of compensated emancipation,
on which he had already made a recommendation earlier in the year in a special message to Congress.
The concluding paragraph is in the elevated style of the Inaugurals.

THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.

The first draft of the Proclamation was submitted to the Cabinet in the preceding July, with
the remark that he had fully determined to issue it immediately.  Secretary Seward suggested
that its issue be postponed until it could be given to the country supported by some military
success.  The President saw the force of the suggestion and waited until after the battle of
Antietam.  The Preliminary Proclamation was dated September 22, 1862.  In a reply to a serenade
two days later the President said: "I can only trust in God I have made no mistake."

Upon military necessity.  This phrase was inserted in the concluding sentence, which had been
suggested by Secretary Chase, as furnishing the only authority by which the President felt
that he could free the slaves of the enemy.  The Proclamation did not refer to those slaves
held by persons who were not in rebellion.

LETTER TO J. C. CONKLING.

Mr. Conkling was a personal friend of the President, and the formal letter was accompanied
by the following note:

"MY DEAR CONKLING:

"I cannot leave here now.  Herewith is a letter instead.  You are one of the best public readers.
I have but one request--read it very slowly and now God bless you, and all good Union men."

In spite of precautions, the letter was published in the New York Evening Post several days
before the meeting.

I know as fully as one can know.  The portion of the paragraph from these words to the end
was not in the original letter, but was added by telegraph.

THE GETTYSBURG ADDRESS.

The standard text of the address does not agree exactly either with the original written form
or with the form in which it was delivered, but it is a combination of these, made by Lincoln
a few days later.  In the contemporary newspaper reports it was variously referred to as an
address, a speech, and remarks.

Government of the people.  The thought contained in this sentence was not original with Lincoln,
but it has been traced back through several centuries.  It was probably suggested to Lincoln
by the following passage in an address by Theodore Parker, which he is known to have read:
"Democracy is direct self-government over all the people, for all the people, by all the people."

THE SECOND INAUGURAL ADDRESS.

This address is in marked contrast, both in length and character, to President Lincoln's first
official communication.  Some of the main thoughts and two of the Biblical quotations occur
in a letter written May 30, 1864.

Let us judge not, that we be not judged.  Adapted from Matthew vii. 1.

"Woe unto the world."  Matthew xviii. 7.

Fondly do we hope.  The accidental rhyme in this passage is the only blemish that has been
objected to in the address, and it is not serious.

"The judgments of the Lord."  Psalms xix. 9.  The opening words of the last paragraph are the
best expression ever given of the spirit of Lincoln, who on another occasion said, "I have
never willingly planted a thorn in any man's bosom."

THE LAST SPEECH.

This address, the longest of the presidential period with the exception of the First Inaugural,
was delivered before a great crowd gathered in front of the White House, four days before Lincoln's
assassination. The evening before, on a similar occasion, he had requested the people to wait
until he could prepare his remarks, adding that he wished to be careful, as everything he said
got into print.  The newspaper reports of the following day state that it was received with
great enthusiasm. The address is of special interest as indicating the attitude of the President
toward the difficult question of Reconstruction.

The evacuation of Petersburg and Richmond.  April 2 and 3 respectively.  General Lee surrendered
April 9.

The new constitution of Louisiana.  The constitution was adopted September 5, 1861.

The proposed amendment.  The thirteenth amendment, abolishing slavery throughout the United
States, was proposed in 1864, but failed to receive the necessary two-thirds vote in the House
of Representatives. It was passed in 1865, and after receiving the endorsement of the necessary
number of States went into effect December 15 of the same year.

