Because it contains an alkaline substance called Morphia. The same drug contains a peculiar
acid called the Meconic; and a vegetable alkali named Narcotine, to which unpleasant stimulating
properties are attributed by Majendie.

Why is sugar so generally found in plants?

Because it is not only the seasoning of most eatable fruits, but abounds in various roots,
as the carrot, beet, parsnip, and in many plants of the grass, or cane kind, besides the famous
sugar cane.

Sir James Smith observes that "there is great reason to suppose sugar not so properly an original
secretion, as the result of a chemical change in secretions already formed, either of an acid
or mucilaginous nature, or possibly a mixture of both. In ripening fruits, this change is most
striking, and takes place very speedily, seeming to be greatly promoted by heat and light.
By the action of frost, as Dr. Darwin observes, a different change is wrought in the mucilage
of the vegetable body, and it becomes starch."

M. Berard considers gum and lignin as the principles in unripe fruits which chiefly tend to
the formation of sugar during their ripening, and he has given several analyses of fruits in
illustration of these views. Mr. Brande also considers the elements of water as probably concerned
in the change.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

THE SUGAR CANE.

At the island of Tahiti (Otaheite) South Pacific Ocean, there are several varieties of the
sugar cane, differing, however, in their qualities. The number of varieties are eight, and
are as follow:--

1. Rutu--of good quality.

2. Avae--of indifferent quality.

3. Irimotu--a rich cane, but does not grow to a large size.

4. Patu--a good cane, of a red colour.

5. To-ura--a dark-striped cane, hard and good.

6. Toute--a bad cane, of a red colour.

7. Veu--a good cane.

8. Vaihi--this attains a large size, and is considered of the best quality. It is said by the
natives to have been introduced from the Sandwich Islands.

At Manilla (Island of Luconia) the planters mention three cultivated varieties of the sugar cane:--

1. Cana negra--black sugar cane.

2.  "   morada--brown    "

3.  "   blancha--white   "

of which the black or cana negra is considered the best, from its strength and the quantity
of syrup contained in it.

Mr. G.B.'s MS. Journal, 1829-30.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BARN OWL;

and the Benefits it confers on Man. By Charles Waterton, Esq. I wish that any little thing
I could write or say might cause it to stand better with the world at large than it has hitherto
done: but I have slender hopes on this score; because old and deep-rooted prejudices are seldom
overcome; and when I look back into the annals of remote antiquity, I see too clearly that
defamation has done its worst to ruin the whole family, in all its branches, of this poor,
harmless, useful friend of mine.

Ovid, nearly two thousand years ago, was extremely severe against the owl.

Amongst the numberless verses which might be quoted against the family of the owl, I think
I only know of one little ode which expresses any pity for it. Our nursery maid used to sing
it to the tune of the Storm, "Cease rude Boreas, blust'ring railer."

I beg the reader's pardon for this exordium. I have introduced it, in order to show how little
chance there has been, from days long passed and gone to the present time, of studying the
haunts and economy of the owl, because its unmerited bad name has created it a host of foes,
and doomed it to destruction from all quarters. Some few, certainly, from time to time, have
been kept in cages and in aviaries. But nature rarely thrives in captivity, and very seldom
appears in her true character when she is encumbered with chains, or is to be looked at by
the passing crowd through bars of iron. However, the scene is now going to change; and I trust
that the reader will contemplate the owl with more friendly feelings, and quite under different
circumstances. Here, no rude schoolboy ever approaches its retreat; and those who once dreaded
its diabolical doings are now fully satisfied that it no longer meddles with their destinies,
or has any thing to do with the repose of their departed friends. Indeed, human wretches in
the shape of body-snatchers seem here in England to have usurped the office of the owl in our
churchyards; "et vendunt tumulis corpora rapta suis."[7]

Up to the year 1813, the barn owl had a sad time of it at Walton Hall. Nay, it was a well-known
fact, that if any person were sick in the neighbourhood, it would be for ever looking in at
the window, and holding a conversation outside with somebody, they did not know whom. The gamekeeper
agreed with her in every thing she said on this important subject; and he always stood better
in her books when he had managed to shoot a bird of this bad and mischievous family. However,
in 1813, on my return from the wilds of Guiana, having suffered myself, and learned mercy,
I broke in pieces the code of penal laws which the knavery of the gamekeeper and the lamentable
ignorance of the other servants had hitherto put in force, far too successfully, to thin the
numbers of this poor, harmless, unsuspecting tribe. On the ruin of the old gateway, against
which, tradition says, the waves of the lake have dashed for the better part of a thousand
years, I made a place with stone and mortar, about 4 ft. square, and fixed a thick oaken stick
firmly into it. Huge masses of ivy now quite cover it. In about a month or so after it was
finished, a pair of barn owls came and took up their abode in it. I threatened to strangle
the keeper if ever, after this, he molested either the old birds or their young ones; and I
assured the housekeeper that I would take upon myself the whole responsibility of all the sickness,
woe, and sorrow that the new tenants might bring into the Hall. She made a low courtesy; as
much as to say, "Sir, I fall into your will and pleasure:" but I saw in her eye that she had
made up her mind to have to do with things of fearful and portentous shape, and to hear many
a midnight wailing in the surrounding woods. I do not think that up to the day of this old
lady's death, which took place in her eighty-fourth year, she ever looked with pleasure or
contentment on the barn owl, as it flew round the large sycamore trees which grow near the
old ruined gateway.

(To be concluded in our next.)

[1] "Ill-omen'd in his form, the unlucky fowl,
     Abhorr'd by men, and call'd a screeching owl."--Garth's Trans.

[2] "They fly by night, and assail infants in the nurse's absence."

[3] "Even the ill-boding owl is declared a bird of good omen."

[4] "The Stygian owl gives sad omens in a thousand places."

[5] "A feather of the night owl."

[6] ----"And, on her palace top,
    The lonely owl with oft repeated scream
    Complains, and spins into a dismal length
    Her baleful shrieks."--Trapp's Trans.

[7] "And sell bodies torn from their tombs."

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

BLONDEL DE NESLE.

"Blondel de Nesle the favourite minstrel of Richard Coeur de Lion, and an attendant upon his
person, devoted himself to discover the place of his confinement during the crusade against
Saladin, emperor of the Saracens. He wandered in vain from castle to palace, till he learned
that a strong and almost inaccessible fortress upon the Danube was watched with peculiar strictness,
as containing some state-prisoner of distinction. The minstrel took his harp, and approaching
as near the castle as he durst, came so nigh the walls as to hear the melancholy captive soothing
his imprisonment with music. Blondel touched his harp; the prisoner heard and was silent: upon
this the minstrel played the first part of a tune, or lay, known to the captive; who instantly
played the second part; and thus, the faithful servant obtained the certainty that the inmate
of the castle was no other than his royal master."--Tales of a Grandfather, p 69.

  The Danube's wide-flowing water lave
    The captive's dungeon cell,
  And the voice of its hoarse and sullen wave
    Breaks forth in a louder swell,
  And the night-breeze sighs in a deeper gust,
  For the flower of chivalry droops in dust!

  A yoke is hung over the victor's neck,
    And fetters enthral the strong,
  And manhood's pride like a fearful wreck,
   Lies the breakers of care among;
  And the gleams of hope, overshadow'd, seem
  The phantoms of some distemper'd dream.

  But the heart--the heart is unconquer'd still--
    A host in its solitude!
  Quenchless the spirit, though fetter'd the will,
    Of that warrior unsubdued;
  His soul, like an arrow from rocky ground,
  Shall fiercely and proudly in air rebound.

  But the hour of darkness girds him now
    With a pall of deepest night,
  Anguish sits throned on his moody brow,
    And the curse of thy withering blight,
  Despair, thou dreariest deathliest foe!
  His senses hath steep'd in a torpid woe.

  From the dazzling splendour of gloriest past
    The warrior sickening turns.
  To list to the sound of the wailing blast,
    As the wan lamp dimly burns:
  For the daring might of the lion-hearted
  With Freedom's soul-thrilling notes hath parted.

  O'er his harp-string droops his palsied hand,
    And the fitful strain alone
  Murmurs the notes of his native land--
    Does echo repeat that moan
  From the dungeon wall so grim and so drear?--
  No!--an answering minstrel lingers there.

  Up starts the listening king--a flash
    Of memory's gifted lore
  Bursts on his soul--a deed so rash,
    What captive would e'er deplore?
  Since bonds no longer unnerve the free,
  And valour hath won fidelity.

  Dark child of sorrow, sweet comfort take,
    In thy lone heart's widowhood,
  Some charmed measure may yet awake
    Arresting affliction's flood,
  And thy prison'd soul unfetter'd be
  By the answering spirit of sympathy!

Metropolitan.

       *       *       *       *       *

ASMODEUS AT LARGE.

The design of this paper, in the New Monthly Magazine, is by no means novel; but the fine,
cutting satire--the pleasant, lively banter on our vices and follies--which pervades every
page of the article, is a set-off to the political frenzy and the literary lumber of other
Magazines of the month. Each of them, it is true, has a readable paper, but one gem only contributes
to a Magazine in the proportion of one swallow to a summer.

Here are three pages of the New Monthly Devil:

"A stranger, Sir, in the library," said my servant in opening the door.

"Indeed! what a short, lame gentleman?"

"No, Sir; middle-sized,--has very much the air of a lawyer or professional man."

I entered the room, and instead of the dwarf demon Le Sage described, I beheld a comely man
seated at the table, with a high forehead, a sharp face, and a pair of spectacles on his nose.
He was employed in reading the new novel of "The Usurer's Daughter."

"This cannot be the devil!" said I to myself; so I bowed, and asked the gentleman his business.

"Tush!" quoth my visiter; "and how did you leave the Doctor?"

"It is you, then!" said I; "you have grown greatly since you left Don Cleofas."

