In its present state, the "Chronicle" comes to an end with a notice of the capture of Constantinople
by the French in 1204, and it has been hastily assumed that Helinand's labours as a chronicler
must have closed in that year.  As a matter of fact they had not then even begun. At that time
Helinand was still a courtly troubadour, and had not yet entered on the monastic career during
which his "Chronicle" was compiled.  He was certainly living as late as 1229, and preached
a sermon, which assuredly shows no signs of mental decrepitude, in that year at a synod in
Toulouse. (11)

Fortunately a passage in the "Speculum Historiale" of Vincent of Beauvais, himself a younger
contemporary and probably a personal acquaintance of Helinand, throws considerable light on
the real date of Helinand's "Chronicle".  After recounting certain matters connected with the
early years of the thirteenth century, the last date mentioned being 1209, Vincent proceeds:--

     "In those times, in the diocese of Beauvais, was Helinand
     monk of Froid-mont, a man religious and distinguished for
     his eloquence, who also composed those verses on Death in
     our vulgar tongue which are publicly read, so elegantly and
     so usefully that the subject is laid open clearer than the
     light.  He also diligently digested into a certain huge
     volume a Chronicle from the beginning of the world down to
     his own time.  But in truth this work was dissipated and
     dispersed in such sort that it is nowhere to be found
     entire.  For it is reported that the said Helinand lent
     certain sheets of the said work to one of his familiars, to
     wit, Guarin, Lord Bishop of Senlis of good memory, and thus,
     whether through forgetfulness or negligence or some other
     cause, lost them altogether.  From this work, however, as
     far as I have been able to find it, I have inserted many
     passages in this work of mine own also."

It will thus be seen that about 1209, Helinand became a monk at Froid-mont, and it is exceedingly
improbable that any portion of his "Chronicle" was written before that date.  On the other
hand, his 'familiar' Guarin only became Bishop of Senlis in 1214, and died in 1227, (12) so
that it is certain Helinand wrote the last part of his "Chronicle" not later than the last-mentioned
year. The limits of time, therefore, between which the "Chronicle" was written are clearly
circumscribed; and if it is impossible to define the exact year in which this particular entry
was made, it is not, I fancy, beyond the legitimate bounds of critical conjecture.

On the first page of the Romance, Helinand read that an Angel had appeared to a certain hermit
in Britain and revealed to him the history of the Holy Graal.  In transferring the record of
this event to his "Chronicle", he was compelled by the exigencies of his system, which required
the insertion of every event recorded under some particular year, to assign a date to the occurrence.
A vague "five hundred years ago" would be likely to suggest itself as an appropriate time at
which the occurrence might be supposed to have taken place; and if he were writing in 1220,
the revelation to the hermit would thus naturally be relegated to the year 720, the year under
which the entry actually appears. This, of course, is pure guesswork, but the fact remains
that the "Chronicle" was written in or about 1220, and the "Book of the Graal" not long before it.

The name of the author is nowhere recorded.  He may possibly be referred to in the "Elucidation"
prefixed to the rhymed version of "Percival le Gallois" under the name of "Master Blihis",
but this vague and tantalising pseudonym affords no hint of his real identity. (13) Whoever
he may have been; I hope that I am not misled by a translator's natural partiality for the
author he translates in assigning him a foremost rank among the masters of medieval prose romance.

With these testimonies to its age and genuineness, I commend the "Book of the Graal" to all
who love to read of King Arthur and his knights of the Table Round.  They will find here printed
in English for the first time what I take to be in all good faith the original story of Sir
Perceval and the Holy Graal, whole and incorrupt as it left the hands of its first author.

--Sebastian Evans,
  Coombe Lea, Bickley, Kent

ENDNOTES:

(1)  6 vols. 8vo.  Mons, 1866-1871.

(2)  Marchal "Cat.", 2 vols. Brussels, 1842.  Vol i.p. 223.

(3)  Lausanne, 1759.

(4)  3 vols. 8vo.  Berne, 1770, etc.  Vol. ii., Introduc. viii.
     and p. 389 et seq.

(5)  Rigord. "Chron." 196, p. 288.  Wm. le Breton, "Phil." xi.
     547.  See also Birch-Hirschfeld, "Die Gralsage", p. 143.

(6)  2 vols. 8vo.  London, Richards, 1876-1892.

(7)  "L'histoire de Foulkes Fitz-Warin". Ed. F. Michel, Paris,
     1840; p. 110.  Ed. T. Wright (Warton Club), London, 1855; p.
     179.  Ed. J. Stevenson ("Roll, Pub. Chron." of R.
     Coggeshall), London, 1875; p. 412.  The MS. containing the
     history (MS. Reg. 12. c. XII.) was first privately printed
     for the late Sir T. Duffus Hardy from a transcript by A.
     Berbrugger.

(8)  "Le Roman de Ham", in the Appendix to F. Michel's "Histoire
     des Ducs de Normandie".  Soc. de l'Hist. de France, 1840,
     pp. 225, 230.

(9)  Helinandi Op. Ed. Migne. "Patrol." Vol. ccxii. col. 814.
     The former part of the passage is quoted with due
     acknowledgment by Vincent of Beauvais, "Spec. Hist." B.
     xxiii. c. 147.  Vincent, however, spells the French word
     "grail", and, by turning Helinand's "nec" into "nune", makes
     him say that the French work can now easily be found
     complete.  Vincent finished his "Speculum Historialz in 1244"
     B. xxi. c. 105.

(10) Vol. i. p. 1, etc.

(11) Sermon xxvi., printed in Minge, u.s. col. 692.  It has been
     doubted whether this sermon, preached in the church of S.
     Jacques, was addressed to the Council held at Toulouse in
     1219, or to the one held in 1229, but a perusal of the
     sermon itself decides the question.  It is wholly irrelevant
     to the topics discussed at the former gathering, while it is
     one continued commentary on the business transacted at the
     latter.  See also Dom Brial, "Hist. Litt. de la France",
     xviii. 92.

(12) "De Mas Latrie. Tres. de Chron.", col. 1488.

(13) Cf. Potvin, "P. le G." ii. 1 and 7, with vol. i. p. 131 and
     vol. ii. p. 112 of the present work (See also the
     Proceedings of the "Hon. Soc. of Cymmrodorion", 1908-9. Ed.)

THE HIGH HISTORY OF THE HOLY GRAAL

BRANCH I.

INCIPIT.

Hear ye the history of the most holy vessel that is called Graal, wherein the precious blood
of the Saviour was received on the day that He was put on rood and crucified in order that
He might redeem His people from the pains of hell.  Josephus set it in remembrance by annunciation
of the voice of an angel, for that the truth might be known by his writing of good knights,
and good worshipful men how they were willing to suffer pain and to travail for the setting
forward of the Law of Jesus Christ, that He willed to make new by His death and by His crucifixion.

TITLE I.

The High Book of the Graal beginneth in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy
Ghost.  These three Persons are one substance, which is God, and of God moveth the High Story
of the Graal.  And all they that hear it ought to understand it, and to forget all the wickednesses
that they have in their hearts. For right profitable shall it be to all them that shall hear
it of the heart.  For the sake of the worshipful men and good knights of whose deeds shall
remembrance be made, doth Josephus recount this holy history, for the sake of the lineage of
the Good Knight that was after the crucifixion of Our Lord. Good Knight was he without fail,
for he was chaste and virgin of his body and hardy of heart and puissant, and so were his conditions
without wickedness.  Not boastful was he of speech, and it seemed not by his cheer that he
had so great courage; Natheless, of one little word that he delayed to speak came to pass so
sore mischances in Greater Britain, that all the islands and all the lands fell thereby into
much sorrow, albeit thereafter he put them back into gladness by the authority of his good
knighthood. Good knight was he of right, for he was of the lineage of Joseph of Abarimacie.
And this Joseph was his mother's uncle, that had been a soldier of Pilate's seven years, nor
asked he of him none other guerdon of his service but only to take down the body of Our Saviour
from hanging on the cross.  The boon him seemed full great when it was granted him, and full
little to Pilate seemed the guerdon; for right well had Joseph served him, and had he asked
to have gold or land thereof, willingly would he have given it to him. And for this did Pilate
make him a gift of the Saviour's body, for he supposed that Joseph should have dragged the
same shamefully through the city of Jerusalem when it had been taken down from the cross, and
should have left it without the city in some mean place.  But the Good Soldier had no mind
thereto, but rather honoured the body the most he might, rather laid it along in the Holy Sepulchre
and kept safe the lance whereof He was smitten in the side and the most Holy Vessel wherein
they that believed on Him received with awe the blood that ran down from His wounds when He
was set upon the rood.  Of this lineage was the Good Knight for whose sake is this High History
treated. Yglais was his mother's name: King Fisherman was his uncle, and the King of the Lower
Folk that was named Pelles, and the King that was named of the Castle Mortal, in whom was there
as much bad as there was good in the other twain, and much good was there in them; and these
three were his uncles on the side of his mother Yglais, that was a right good Lady and a loyal;
and the Good Knight had one sister, that hight Dindrane. He that was head of the lineage on
his father's side was named Nichodemus.  Gais li Gros of the Hermit's Cross was father of Alain
li Gros.  This Alain had eleven brethren, right good knights, like as he was himself.  And
none of them all lived in his knighthood but twelve years, and they all died in arms for their
great hardiment in setting forward of the Law that was made new.  There were twelve brethren.
Alain li Gros was the eldest; Gorgalians was next; Bruns Brandnils was the third; Bertholez
li Chauz the fourth; Brandalus of Wales was the fifth; Elinant of Escavalon was the sixth;
Calobrutus was the seventh; Meralis of the Palace Meadow was the eighth; Fortunes of the Red
Launde was ninth; Melaarmaus of Abanie was the tenth; Galians of the White Tower the eleventh;
Alibans of the Waste City was the twelfth. All these died in arms in the service of the Holy
Prophet that had renewed the Law by His death, and smote His enemies to the uttermost of their
power.  Of these two manner of folk, whose names and records you have heard, Josephus the good
clerk telleth us was come the Good Knight of whom you shall well hear the name and the manner
presently.

II.

The authority of the scripture telleth us that after the crucifixion of Our Lord, no earthly
King set forward the Law of Jesus Christ so much as did King Arthur of Britain, both by himself
and by the good knights that made repair to his court. Good King Arthur after the crucifixion
of Our Lord, was such as I tell you, and was a puissant King, and one that well believed in
God, and many were the good adventures that befel at his court. And he had in his court the
Table Round that was garnished of the best knights in the world.  King Arthur after the death
of his father led the highest life and most gracious that ever king led, in such sort that
all the princes and all the barons took ensample of him in well-doing.  For ten years was King
Arthur in such estate as I have told you, nor never was earthly king so praised as he, until
that a slothful will came upon him and he began to lose the pleasure in doing largesse that
he wont to have, nor was he minded to hold court neither at Christmas-tide nor at Easter nor
at Pentecost. The knights of the Table Round when they saw his well-doing wax slack departed
thence and began to hold aloof from his court, insomuch as that of three hundred and three-score
knights and six that he wont to have of his household, there were now not more than a five-and-twenty
at most, nor did no adventure befal any more at his court.  All the other princes had slackened
of their well-doing for that they saw King Arthur maintain so feebly.  Queen Guenievre was
so sorrowful thereof that she knew not what counsel to take with herself, nor how she might
so deal as to amend matters so God amended them not.  From this time beginneth the history.

III.

It was one Ascension Day that the King was at Cardoil.  He was risen from meat and went through
the hall from one end to the other, and looked and saw the Queen that was seated at a window.
The King went to sit beside her, and looked at her in the face and saw that the tears were
falling from her eyes.

"Lady," saith the King, "What aileth you, and wherefore do you weep?"

"Sir," saith she, "And I weep, good right have I; and you yourself have little right to make joy."

"Certes, Lady, I do not."

"Sir," saith she, "You are right.  I have seen on this high day, or on other days that were
not less high than this, when you have had such throng of knights at your court that right
uneath might any number them.  Now every day are so few therein that much shame have I thereof,
nor no more do no adventures befal therein. Wherefore great fear have I lest God hath put you
into forgetfulness."

"Certes, Lady," saith the King, "No will have I to do largesse nor aught that turneth to honour.
Rather is my desire changed into feebleness of heart.  And by this know I well that I lose
my knights and the love of my friends."

"Sir," saith the Queen, "And were you to go to the chapel of S. Augustine, that is in the White
Forest, that may not be found save by adventure only, methinketh that on your back-repair you
would again have your desire of well-doing, for never yet did none discounselled ask counsel
of God but he would give it for love of him so he asked it of a good heart."

"Lady," saith the King, "And willingly will I go, forasmuch as that you say have I heard well
witnessed in many places where I have been."

"Sir," saith she, "The place is right perilous and the chapel right adventurous.  But the most
worshipful hermit that is in the Kingdom of Wales hath his dwelling beside the chapel, nor
liveth he now any longer for nought save only the glory of God."

"Lady," saith the King, "It will behove me go thither all armed and without knights."

"Sir," saith she, "You may well take with you one knight and a squire."

"Lady," saith the King, "That durst not I, for the place is perilous, and the more folk one
should take thither, the fewer adventures there should he find."

"Sir," saith she, "One squire shall you take by my good will nor shall nought betide you thereof
save good only, please God!"

"Lady," saith the King, "At your pleasure be it, but much dread I that nought shall come of
it save evil only."

Thereupon the King riseth up from beside the Queen, and looketh before him and seeth a youth
tall and strong and comely and young, that was hight Chaus, and he was the son of Ywain li Aoutres.

"Lady," saith he to the Queen, "This one will I take with me and you think well."

"Sir," saith she, "It pleaseth me well, for I have heard much witness to his valour."

The King calleth the squire, and he cometh and kneeleth down before him.  The King maketh him
rise and saith unto him, "Chaus," saith he, "You shall lie within to-night, in this hall, and
take heed that my horse be saddled at break of day and mine arms ready.  For I would be moving
at the time I tell you, and yourself with me without more company."

"Sir," saith the squire, "At your pleasure."

And the evening drew on, and the King and Queen go to bed.  When they had eaten in hall, the
knights went to their hostels.  The squire remained in the hall, but he would not do off his
clothes nor his shoon, for the night seemed him to be too short, and for that he would fain
be ready in the morning at the King's commandment.  The squire was lying down in such sort
as I have told you, and in the first sleep that he slept, seemed him the King had gone without
him.  The squire was sore scared thereat, and came to his hackney and set the saddle and bridle
upon him, and did on his spurs and girt on his sword, as it seemed him in his sleep, and issued
forth of the castle a great pace after the King.  And when he had ridden a long space he entered
into a great forest and looked in the way before him and saw the slot of the King's horse and
followed the track a long space, until that he came to a launde of the forest whereat he thought
that the King had alighted. The squire thought that the hoof-marks on the way had come to an
end and so thought that the King had alighted there or hard by there.  He looketh to the right
hand and seeth a chapel in the midst of the launde, and he seeth about it a great graveyard
wherein were many coffins, as it seemed him.  He thought in his heart that he would go towards
the chapel, for he supposed that the King would have entered to pray there.  He went thitherward
and alighted.  When the squire was alighted, he tied up his hackney and entered into the chapel.
None did he see there in one part nor another, save a knight that lay dead in the midst of
the chapel upon a bier, and he was covered of a rich cloth of silk, and had around him waxen
tapers burning that were fixed in four candlesticks of gold.  This squire marvelled much how
this body was left there so lonely, insomuch that none were about him save only the images,
and yet more marvelled he of the King that he found him not, for he knew not in what part to
seek him.  He taketh out one of the tall tapers, and layeth hand on the golden candlestick,
and setteth it betwixt his hose and his thigh and issueth forth of the chapel, and remounteth
on his hackney and goeth his way back and passeth beyond the grave-yard and issueth forth of
the launde and entereth into the forest and thinketh that he will not cease until he hath found
the King.

IV.

So, as he entereth into a grassy lane in the wood, he seeth come before him a man black and
foul-favoured, and he was somewhat taller afoot than was himself a-horseback.  And he held
a great sharp knife in his hand with two edges as it seemed him.  The squire cometh over against
him a great pace and saith unto him, "You, that come there, have you met King Arthur in this
forest?"

"In no wise," saith the messenger, "But you have I met, whereof am I right glad at heart, for
you have departed from the chapel as a thief and a traitor.  For you are carrying off thence
the candlestick of gold that was in honour of the knight that lieth in the chapel dead. Wherefore
I will that you yield it up to me and so will I carry it back, otherwise, and you do not this,
you do I defy!"

"By my faith," saith the squire, "Never will I yield it you! rather will I carry it off and
make a present thereof to King Arthur."

"By my faith," saith the other, "Right dearly shall you pay for it, and you yield it not up
forthwith."

Howbeit, the squire smiteth with his spurs and thinketh to pass him by, but the other hasteth
him, and smiteth the squire in the left side with the knife and thrusteth it into his body
up to the haft.  The squire, that lay in the hall at Cardoil, and had dreamed this, awoke and
cried in a loud voice: "Holy Mary!  The priest!  Help!  Help, for I am a dead man!"

The King and the Queen heard the cry, and the chamberlain leapt up and said to the King: "sir,
you may well be moving, for it is day!"

The King made him be clad and shod.  And the squire crieth with such strength as he hath: "Fetch
me the priest, for I die!"

The King goeth thither as fast as he may, and the Queen and the chamberlain carry great torches
and candles.  The King asketh him what aileth him, and he telleth him all in such wise as he
had dreamed it. "Ha," saith the King, "Is it then a dream?"

"Yea, sir," saith he, "But a right foul dream it is for me, for right foully hath it come true!"
He lifted his left arm. "Sir," saith he, "Look you there!  Lo, here is the knife that was run
into my side up to the haft!"  After that, he setteth his hand to his hose where the candlestick
was.  He draweth it forth and showeth it to the King. "Sir," saith he, "For this candlestick
that I present to you, am I wounded to the death!"

The King taketh the candlestick, and looketh thereat in wonderment for none so rich had he
never seen tofore.  The King showeth it to the Queen.  "Sir," saith the squire, "Draw not forth
the knife of my body until that I be shriven."

The King sent for one of his own chaplains that made the squire confess and do his houselling
right well.  The King himself draweth forth the knife of the body, and the soul departed forthwith.
The King made do his service right richly and his shrouding and burial.  Ywain li Aoutres that
was father to the squire was right sorrowful of the death of his son.  King Arthur, with the
good will of Ywain his father, gave the candlestick to S. Paul in London, for the church was
newly founded, and the King wished that this marvellous adventure should everywhere be known,
and that prayer should be made in the church for the soul of the squire that was slain on account
of the candlestick.

V.

King Arthur armed himself in the morning, as I told you and began to tell, to go to the chapel
of S. Augustine.  Said the Queen to him. "Whom will you take with you?"

"Lady," saith he, "No company will I have thither, save God only, for well may you understand
by this adventure that hath befallen, that God will not allow I should have none with me."

"Sir," saith she, "God be guard of your body, and grant you return safely so as that you may
have the will to do well, whereby shall your praise be lifted up that is now sore cast down."

"Lady," saith he, "May God remember it."

His destrier was brought to the mounting-stage, and the King mounted thereon all armed.  Messire
Ywain li Aoutres lent him his shield and spear.  When the King had hung the shield at his neck
and held the spear in his hand, sword-girt, on the tall destrier armed, well seemed he in the
make of his body and in his bearing to be a knight of great pith and hardiment.  He planteth
himself so stiffly in the stirrups that he maketh the saddlebows creak again and the destrier
stagger under him that was right stout and swift, and he smiteth him of his spurs, and the
horse maketh answer with a great leap.  The Queen was at the windows of the hall, and as many
as five-and-twenty knights were all come to the mounting-stage.  When the King departed, "Lords,"
saith the Queen, "How seemeth you of the King?  Seemeth he not a goodly man?"

"Yea, certes, Lady, and sore loss is it to the world that he followeth not out his good beginning,
for no king nor prince is known better learned of all courtesy nor of all largesse than he,
so he would do like as he was wont."  With that the knights hold their peace, and King Arthur
goeth away a great pace.  And he entereth into a great forest adventurous, and rideth the day
long until he cometh about evensong into the thick of the forest.  And he espied a little house
beside a little chapel, and it well seemed him to be a hermitage.  King Arthur rode thitherward
and alighteth before this little house, and entereth thereinto and draweth his horse after
him, that had much pains to enter in at the door, and laid his spear down on the ground and
leant his shield against the wall, and hath ungirded his sword and unlaced his ventail.  He
looked before him and saw barley and provender, and so led his horse thither and smote off
his bridle, and afterwards hath shut the door of the little house and locked it. And it seemed
him that there was a strife in the chapel.  The ones were weeping so tenderly and sweetly as
it were angels, and the other spake so harshly as it were fiends.  The King heard such voices
in the chapel and marvelled much what it might be. He findeth a door in the little house that
openeth on a little cloister whereby one goeth to the chapel.  The King is gone thither and
entereth into the little minster, and looketh everywhere but seeth nought there, save the images
and the crucifixes. And he supposeth not that the strife of these voices cometh of them. The
voices ceased as soon as he was within.  He marvelleth how it came that this house and hermitage
were solitary, and what had become of the hermit that dwelt therein. He drew nigh the altar
of the chapel and beheld in front thereof a coffin all discovered, and he saw the hermit lying
therein all clad in his vestments, and seeth the long beard down to his girdle, and his hands
crossed upon his breast.  There was a cross above him, whereof the image came as far as his
mouth, and he had life in him yet, but he was nigh his end, being at the point of death. The
King was before the coffin a long space, and looked right fainly on the hermit, for well it
seemed him that he had been of a good life. The night was fully come, but within was a brightness
of light as if a score of candles were lighted.  He had a mind to abide there until that the
good man should have passed away.  He would fain have sate him down before the coffin, when
a voice warned him right horribly to begone thence, for that it was desired to make a judgment
within there, that might not be made so long as he were there.  The King departed, that would
willingly have remained there, and so returned back into the little house, and sate him down
on a seat whereon the hermit wont to sir.  And he heareth the strife and the noise begin again
within the chapel, and the ones he heareth speaking high and the others low, and he knoweth
well by the voices, that the ones are angels and the others devils.  And he heareth that the
devils are distraining on the hermit's soul, and that judgment will presently be given in their
favour, whereof make they great joy. King Arthur is grieved in his heart when he heareth that
the angels' voices are stilled.  The King is so heavy, that no desire hath he neither to eat
nor to drink.  And while he sitteth thus, stooping his head toward the ground, full of vexation
and discontent, he heareth in the chapel the voice of a Lady that spake so sweet and clear,
that no man in this earthly world, were his grief and heaviness never so sore, but and he had
heard the sweet voice of her pleading would again have been in joy.  She saith to the devils:
"Begone from hence, for no right have ye over the soul of this good man, whatsoever he may
have done aforetime, for in my Son's service and mine own is he taken, and his penance hath
he done in this hermitage of the sins that he hath done."

"True, Lady," say the devils, "But longer had he served us than he hath served you and your
Son.  For forty years or more hath he been a murderer and robber in this forest, whereas in
this hermitage but five years hath he been.  And now you Wish to thieve him from us."

"I do not.  No wish have I to take him from you by theft, for had he been taken in your service
in suchwise as he hath been taken in mine, yours would he have been, all quit."

The devils go their way all discomfit and aggrieved; and the sweet Mother of our Lord God taketh
the soul of the hermit, that was departed of his body, and so commendeth it to the angels and
archangels that they make present thereof to Her dear Son in Paradise.  And the angels take
it and begin to sing for joy "Te Deum laudamus".  And the Holy Lady leadeth them and goeth
her way along with them.  Josephus maketh remembrance of this history and telleth us that this
worthy man was named Calixtus.

VI.

King Arthur was in the little house beside the chapel, and had heard the voice of the sweet
Mother of God and the angels.  Great joy had he, and was right glad of the good man's soul
that was borne thence into Paradise.  The King had slept right little the night and was all
armed. He saw the day break clear and fair, and goeth his way toward the chapel to cry God
mercy, thinking to find the coffin discovered there where the hermit lay; but so did he not!
Rather, was it covered of the richest tomb-stone that any might ever see, and had on the top
a red cross, and seemed it that the chapel was all incensed.  When the King had made his orison
therein, he cometh back again and setteth on his bridle and saddle and mounteth, and taketh
his shield and spear and departeth from the little house and entereth into the forest and rideth
a great pace, until he cometh at right hour of tierce to one of the fairest laundes that ever
a man might see.  And he seeth at the entrance a spear set bar-wise, and looketh to the right
or ever he should enter therein, and seeth a damsel sitting under a great leafy tree, and she
held the reins of her mule in her hand.  The damsel was of great beauty and full seemly clad.
The King turneth thitherward and so saluteth her and saith: "Damsel," saith he, "God give you
joy and good adventure."

"Sir," saith she, "So may He do to you!"

"Damsel," saith the King, "Is there no hold in this launde?"

"Sir," saith the damsel, "No hold is there save a most holy chapel and a hermit that is beside
S. Augustine's chapel."

"Is this then S. Augustine's chapel?" saith the King.

"Yea, Sir, I tell it you for true, but the launde and the forest about is so perilous that
no knight returneth thence but he be dead or wounded; but the place of the chapel is of so
great worthiness that none goeth thither, be he never so discounselled, but he cometh back
counselled, so he may thence return on live. And Lord God be guard of your body, for never
yet saw I none aforetime that seemed more like to be good knight, and sore pity would it be
and you were not, and never more shall I depart me hence and I shall have seen your end."

"Damsel," saith the King, "Please God, you shall see me repair back thence."

"Certes," saith the damsel, "Thereof should I be!  right fain, for then should I ask you tidings
at leisure of him that I am seeking."

