[Footnote A:
        'Tis said, alas, that life must have its sorrows,
          That with the roses cruel thorns should grow;
        And though we fondly dream of love's to-morrows,
          Must every heart the grief of parting know.]

The words of the poet are but too true. What rose does not hold up its pretty, fragrant head,
feigning unconsciousness of the thorns hidden beneath its bright, green leaves? And just so
life's joys are with its sorrows associated. There never was a perfectly happy day, unclouded
as the skies of June, for every pleasure, inasmuch as it must end, carries with it some sadness--every
meeting, the pain of parting.

So to-night the joyous echo of "welcome" is still to be heard, the fragrance of its roses is
yet perceptible, when the solemn "Farewell" rings upon our ears and its thorns pierce our hearts.
If then, the honor of the world is dependent upon woman, if she is to be responsible for all
war and all peace, happiness or discontent, it behooves us to consider the greatness, amounting
to almost awe, of the duty imposed upon us. Our task may, perhaps, be a difficult one, but
not if we seize it with an unyielding grasp, and fight it to the bitter end--"to the last syllable
of recorded time"--if need be.

Our circle of usefulness is constantly widening. The doors of colleges, and thus those of every
profession, have opened to admit us within their sacred precincts. In all parts of the world
our sisters are successful as musicians, painters, sculptors--Harriet Hosmer, for example--physicians,
professors, stenographers. Many of them are now on the highest rounds of the ladders from which
their lack of superior education formerly excluded them. This is especially true of stenography.
Yet some one has recently written, that, owing to their superior tact in arrangement, their
neatness, their unobtrusiveness, their faithfulness, and numerous other excellent qualities,
the demand for women in this capacity is steadily increasing. We find them filling lucrative
positions in banking, commercial and publishing houses; in brokers' and insurance offices,
in law firms, in fact, in every place where the haste of this nineteenth century requires a
stenographer's speed. Indeed, they have made for themselves, in the use of the "wingéd words,"
a name which it is our duty to assist in more firmly establishing.

In behalf of my classmates, as well as for myself, I wish to thank our Instructor most cordially
for his thorough teaching; for the interest he awakened in us toward this intricate art, without
which we would have long since been compelled to cry "Vanquished;" for his timely assistance
over the sharp pointed stones and by the brier bushes in the darkened forest, and for his patience
which our forgetfulness so sorely tried. And, though our words of gratitude may be weak, the
feeling is deep-rooted in our hearts, and through the years to come we shall carry with us
many pleasant memories of the hours spent with him, and never fail to appreciate his more than
kindness.

The neat typewritten exercises, letters and legal documents, which the members of the typewriting
class have at different times shown us, are an earnest of the work done in that department,
and we can have no doubt that his pupils feel grateful to their teacher.

The School Committee, indeed all the members of the G. S. M. & T., have our heartiest thanks
for their kindness in enabling so many to gain a profession, and for the interest they have
always manifested in our welfare.

One word of "Farewell" to my classmates: During the past Winter, while studying together, many
of us have formed strong friendships, which we hope shall never decay, or have bound more closely
those who were friends before. Several of the more fortunate have already obtained positions,
making profitable use of the treasures received from our Instructor. But the others need not
despair, for if we are faithful and determined we shall in due time receive our call, and "In
quiet and in confidence shall be our strength," perfection shall be our aim, and when we have
reached the goal, may it be said of us, as Antony said of Brutus:

     "Nature might stand up and say to all the world,
     'This was a man.'"

In our journey through life, when doubts fall thick and fast around us, and the lowering sky
seems just above our heads, surely these beautiful words of Goethe will fill us with encouragement:

     "Wouldst thou win desires unbounded?
       Yonder see the glory burn,
     Lightly is our life surrounded,
       Sleep's a shell to scorn and spurn,
     When the crowd sways unbelieving,
       Slow the daring will that warns,
     He is crowned with all achieving
       Who perceives and then performs."

CLASS NIGHT EXERCISES

A Prophecy of the Class of '91.

BY MISS HILDA BUSICK.

Know All Men By These Presents, that I, having departed this life, have received permission
from Pluto, King of the Shades, to return to this world and make known to you, less fortunate
mortals, your destiny. While lounging idly on the banks of the "River of Oblivion," the sovereign
of that sunless region permitted me to read in his "Book of Life." Listlessly turning over
the pages I saw a name in bold characters: "W. L. Mason, City, County and State of New York."
Then the pages began to turn of their own accord and the names of my former friends and acquaintances,
inter alia, presented themselves in rapid succession.

Mary A. Moore and her husband; John Williamson; our well-known pugilistic friend, John L. Sullivan;
a "hen-pecked" Bostonian, and others.

As I read a dim mist seemed to come from the river, causing the words to fade; bona fide pictures
arose in their stead.

First. In the famous city of Kroy Wen, stood a large pagoda, on which was emblazoned the startling
legend: "College of Stenography, W. L. Mason, President." At this hour the college doors were
open and within could be seen the bulletin of the staff; it was, the President, the right honorable
W. L. Mason, D. D., assisted by his able corps of instructors, the professors Massie and Shaughnessy,
the latter by their punctuality and the sweet temper of the former, being of the utmost assistance
to him. Et signiture was the course.

     First Term. Lecture on the Principles of Shorthand, together
     with practical lessons in disorder, untidiness, negligence,
     forgetfulness and carelessness, all thoroughly taught in
     three months more or less.

     Second Term. Practice in misapplying all that you have
     learned, with a view to writing as illegibly and slowly as
     possible.

     Third Term. Literature, the reading of Mother Goose Rhymes in
     shorthand, and the writing of dime novels for the literature
     of the 20th century.

The Right Honorable President, as hereinbefore mentioned, is old and decrepit, unable to keep
order in his classes, and therefore always carries with him a jumping rope, the handles of
which he uses on the knuckles of his unruly pupils, while the rope itself brings to him recollections
of his youthful days when it was used for the legitimate purpose for which it was manufactured.

Second. Now the panorama changes and shows a lady of medium height, fair, slight and happy.
She walks through one of the crowded streets of Kroy Wen, handing to the passers by circulars
which read as follows:

     "To the People of the City of Kroy Wen,

     "GREETING:

     "I beg to notify the public that the first issue of my new
     paper,--Wit,--will be ready in two weeks and I hereby
     guarantee to the said public that it will afford amusement,
     entertainment and instruction, with a special column devoted
     to Phonography.

     Signed,                    "C. CELLPUR."

Third. A revolution had evidently taken place in England; the people were clamoring for Constitutional
Government. Discussions were loud and prolonged in the "House of Lords." In the latter, on
one of the front benches, sat the stenographer who had been admonished on her life to write
the turbulent speeches verbatim. She was our dear friend, Miss Rhythm.

Fourth. An imposing publishing house in the city of Not Sob, which city is noted for its cultured
inhabitants. Small boys were placing on the doors and windows of said publishing house, the
same to remain thereon without hindrance or molestation, large notices which bore this inscription:
"Our most recent publication is a book written by Miss N. Murphie. It is important as a work
of art and is an authority on all topics of etiquette, especially as regards language. The
cultured inhabitants of Not Sob cannot afford to lose this opportunity of making themselves
more familiar with those refinements of speech which have long marked them as the most cultured
people in the land."

Then I saw what seemed to be an illegal document purporting to be a marriage settlement, in
which Mrs. Ocean is wisely having her property settled upon herself, mindful of the time when
she learned that "What's hers is his, and what's his isn't hers."

Fifth. A convention of the Woman's Rights Association. The hall is crowded. Several determined
looking women who have already addressed the meeting are on the platform. The audience is breathlessly
awaiting the appearance of what Edward Everett Hale calls "A Hen's Right Hen." She is at length
presented, her remarks are interspersed with legal terms; evidently some part of the training
has been at the F. S. & T. C. of the G. S. M. & T. Her talk is upon the uselessness of the
male sex and the applause is loud and enthusiastic. Her face and manner are very familiar,
and looking at the programme I see that the initials of her name spell H. E. M. P.

Sixth. A copy of the "Post and Lightning;" it is yellow with age. It had probably been handed
down from generation to generation as a precious heirloom. The column containing the marriage
notices is folded outward, and one marked with blue pencil reads:

"Wolf--Lamb. Mr. F. Wolf to Miss M. Lamb, both of the State of Kroy Wen, May 25th, 912, at
the home of the bride."

"The Wolf had devoured the Lamb."

Verses

 READ BY MISS CARRIE R. PURCELL, UPON AWARDING
 PRIZES TO THE MEMBERS OF HER SECTION,
 TUESDAY EVENING, JUNE 2ND, '91.

     I beg of you all just a little time
     In which to attend to this dear class of mine.
       Dear Tuesday night girls you should all have a prize,
       And it makes me feel sad, and tears dim my eyes
     When I think that for most of you I have no prize.

     But a dear little "tot" in this class doth belong
     Whose euphonious cognomen is Margaret Armstrong,
       If she will come forward, I gladly will give
       A prize she can cherish as long as she'll live.

     And here is another for Nellie J. Bell,
     Whose sweet resonant tones you all know so well;
       Come hither, dear Nellie, a friend greets you now,
       Here, take this small package and make a large bow,
     While I tell your dear classmates, with smiles all serene,
     That soon you will rival the renowned Lawyer Green.

       Ah! here is another, it seems to be round,
       I wonder for which of the class it is bound.
     It may be intended for some gentle "myth"
     But no, my dear friends, it is meant for Miss Smith,
       Who'll take the world easy wherever she is,--
       Will she take it this evening and smile as she does?

