There was a murmur at the table, and his fellows turned their eyes on Ramiro to see how he
would receive this bearding. He smiled quietly, and raising his hand he made a sign to the
executioners.

Rude hands seized me from behind, and the doublet was torn from my back by fingers that never
paused to untruss my points.

They turned me about, and hurried me along until I stood under the pulleys of the torture,
and one of the men held me securely whilst the other passed the cords about my wrists. Then
both the executioners stepped back, to be ready to hoist me at the Governor's signal.

He delayed it, much as an epicure delays the consumption of a delectable morsel, heightening
by suspense the keen desire of his palate. He watched me closely, and had my lips quivered
or my eyelids fluttered, he would have hailed with joy such signs of weakness. But I take pride
in truthfully writing that I stood bold and impassively before him, and if I was pale I thank
Heaven that pallor was the habit of my countenance, so that from that he could gather no satisfaction.
And standing there, I gave him back look for look, and waited.

"For the last time, Boccadoro," he said slowly, attempting by words to shake a demeanour that
was proof against the impending facts of the cord, "I ask you to remember what must be the
consequences of this stubbornness. If not at the first hoist, why then at the second or the
third, the torture will compel you to disclose what you may know. Would you not be better advised
to speak at once, while your limbs are soundly planted in their sockets, rather than let yourself
be maimed, perhaps for life, ere you will do so?"

There was a stir of hoofs without. They thundered on the planks of the drawbridge and clattered
on the stones of the courtyard. The thought of Cesare Borgia rose to my mind. But never did
drowning man clutch at a more illusory straw. Cold reason quenched my hope at once. If the
greatest imaginable success attended Mariani's journey, the Duke could not reach Cesena before
midnight, and to that it wanted some ten hours at least. Moreover, the company that came was
small to judge by the sound--a half-dozen horses at the most.

But Ramiro's attention had been diverted from me by the noise. Half-turning in his chair, he
called to one of the men-at-arms to ascertain who came. Before the fellow could do his bidding,
the door was thrust open and Lucagnolo appeared on the threshold, jaded and worn with hard riding.

A certain excitement arose in me at sight of him, despite my confidence that he must be returning
empty-handed.

Ramiro rose, pushed back his chair and advanced towards the new-comer.

"Well?" he demanded. "What news?"

"Excellency, the girl is here."

That answer seemed to turn me into stone, so great was the shock of this sudden shattering
of the confidence that had sustained me.

"My search in the country failing," pursued the captain, as he came forward, "I made bold to
exceed your orders by pushing my inquiries as far as the village of Cattolica. There I found
her after some little labour."

Surely I dreamt. Surely, I told myself, this was not possible. There was some mistake. Lucagnolo
had drought some wench whom he believed to be Madonna Paola.

But even as I was assuring myself of this, the door opened again, and between two men-at-arms,
white as death, her garments stained with mud and all but reduced to rags, and her eyes wild
with a great fear, came my beloved Paola.

With a sound that was as a grunt of satisfaction, Ramiro strode forward to meet her. But her
eyes travelled past him and rested upon me, standing there between the leather-clad executioners
with the cords of the torture pinioning my wrists, and I saw the anguish deepen in their blue
depths.

CHAPTER XIX. DOOMED

