Meanwhile the schemes of the enemy were tireless for obtaining secret influence within Venetian
borders. Now it was a barefooted friar to be watched for at Mantua, coming with powers plenipotentiary
from his Holiness over all the prelates of the rebellious realm; or it might be this same friar,
in lay disguise, still armed with those ghostly and secret powers, for whom the trusted servants
of Venice were to be on guard. Or there were disaffected brothers, who had left their convents
and were roaming through the land inciting to rebellion, to whom it was needful to teach the
value of quiet, however summary the process. But Venice, by a broad training in intrigue and
cunning, joined to her mastery of the finer principles of statesmanship, still remained mistress
of the springs of action and wore her outward dignity, and the disappointments were for her
adversaries. But this training was a costly one, for it put a prize on daring, confused the
colors of right, and invariably laureled success--if it did no more specific harm to the State.

Piero Salin had been secretly summoned by the Ten and given an indefinite leave of absence
from Venice, together with a large discretionary power in the direction of his wanderings,
with certain other passes and perquisites which bespoke a curious confidence in one who had
been known for a successful and much dreaded bandit gondolier. But if the government in its
complicated labors had need of tools of various tempers, it had also the wisdom to discern
legitimate uses for certain wild and lawless spirits when they were, like Piero, full of daring
and resource.

In the days when they had been dwellers under the same roof Piero had never been able to disregard
Marina's will, often as he had chafed under the necessity of yielding to it; and now, since
she was Lady of the Giustiniani, it had not been otherwise in the rare instances when it had
pleased her to require anything of him. Yet it would have been incongruous to charge Piero
with over-sensitiveness on the side of chivalry, though Marina's power over him was still as
great as in those old days when, being unable to shake himself free from her influence, he
had wished to marry her to make it less.

Piero was not introspective, but he doubtless knew that his ruling passion was to achieve whatever
purpose he might choose to set himself. The Nicolotti knew it well when, a few months before,
they had unanimously elected him to rule over them--as their chief officers had realized it
when they had nominated him, without a dissenting voice, to this position of gastaldo grande--a
position of great honor fully recognized by the government. So the rival faction of the Castellani
bore marvelous testimony to his mastery when they went over in surprising numbers from along
the Giudecca, and underwent the strange ceremonial of baptism into the opposition party.

Yet when the rival factions of the people had thus conspired to make him their chief it was
Marina who had alone induced him to accept the honor. To all his objections her answer had
been ready:

"Nay, Piero, it is meet for thee; they need one strong and brave, of whom they stand in dread,
who knoweth their ways--"

"As much bad as good," Piero had interposed frankly, and not without asseverations well known
to gondoliers.

"It is well said," she had answered, with the comprehension born of her intimate knowledge
of the class; "and to keep them in order--verily, none but thou canst do it."

Piero gave an expressive shrug, having had enough of compliment. "En avanti--c'è altro!" he
said, laughing. "The taxes are heavy, and their Excellencies the tax-gatherers have less patience
than the poor gondoliers bring of zecchini to the purse of the Nicolotti. But the gastaldo
hath as little liberty of delay, as their Excellencies leave him to decline the burden--I might
better make shipwreck in the Canale Orfano."

It was in this canal that the victims of the Inquisition mysteriously disappeared, and Marina
had repressed a shudder while she answered, "Thou wilt come to me, Piero, if the purse of the
Nicolotti weighs little; thou shalt not fail, for this, of wearing the honor of gastaldo grande.

"Nay," she had added, quickly disposing of his awkward attempts at thanks, "think not of it
again; it is for my pleasure to see thee great among the people, for I also and my father are
of them. It is this that I have always wished for thee."

So, chiefly because it had been Marina's will, Piero had waived his unwillingness and become
the central figure in the imposing ceremony of the election of the gastaldo grande of the Nicolotti,
who were, indeed, almost nobles by antiquity and prestige, not only claiming among themselves
the coveted title of nobili, but, under the sanction of the government, electing their gastaldo
with a degree of ceremonial granted only to high officials, and prescribed in very ancient
books of the laws of the traghetti. One of the ducal secretaries, having received official
notice of the vacancy of the office carried in person before the Senate by the oldest man of
the Nicolotti, came, in purple state, to preside over the election when the bell of San Nicolò
had tolled forth the call--taking his seat among the twelve electoral presidents who, already
chosen by the people, awaited him, having sworn the inevitable oath of impartiality and fealty
to the Republic; they sat behind locked doors until the election was brought to a close--in
that solemn semblance of a ducal election which could not fail to impress the people--with
complicated, time-using ballotings, and comings and goings of candidates from adjoining chambers
to express their views of the responsibilities of the office, or to defend themselves against
the freely invited attacks of opponents or malcontents.

And for once Piero had uttered opinions, however clumsily, upon "government" and "reform" from
the pulpit of San Nicolò, in the dignified and interested presence of a ducal secretary, the
bancali, and the disconcerting throng of gondoliers who were intolerant of speeches and impatient
for their vote; and he had retired shamefacedly, like an awkward boy, while his jejune remarks
were elaborately discussed by the judges. And because his views--if he had any--had not been
over-luminously set forth in this his maiden oration, a party of zealous advocates had nearly
caused an uproar by their irrepressible shout of "Non c'e da parlar', ma da fare!" which was,
in truth, too sure an indication of the temper of the people to be ignored. "We do not want
talking--but doing!"

And for once he had experienced a curious sensation which cowardly men call "fear," but for
which Piero had neither name nor tolerance, when all the people who had been worrying him led
him in triumph to the altar and forced him down on his stubborn knees to take a solemn oath
of allegiance, his great bronzed hand, all unaccustomed to restraint, resting meanwhile in
the slippery silken clasp of the ducal secretary.

Here also had the gastaldo received, from those same patrician hands, the unfurled banner of
the Nicolotti, with the sacramental words:

"We consign to you the standard of San Nicolò, in the name of the Most Serene Prince and as
proof that you are the chief gastaldo and head of the people of San Nicolò and San Raffaele."

And after that had come freedom of breath, with the Te Deum, without which no ceremonial was
ever complete in Venice, chanted by all those full-throated gondoliers--a jubilant chorus of
men's voices, ringing the more heartily through the church for those unwonted hours of repression.

But when the doors had at last been thrown wide to the sunshine and the babel of life which
rose from the eager, thronging populace who had no right of entrance on this solemn occasion--men
who had no vote, women and children who had all their lives been Nicolotti of the Nicolotti--a
Venetian must indeed have been stolid to feel no thrill of pride as the procession, with great
pomp, passed out of the church to a chorus of bells and cannon and shouts of the people, proclaiming
him their chosen chief.

Piero Salin was a splendid specimen of the people--tall, broad-shouldered, gifted by nature
and trained by wind and wave to the very perfection of his craft; positive, nonchalant, and
masterful; affable when not thwarted; of fewer words than most Venetians; an adept at all the
intricacies of gondolier intrigue, and fitted by intimate knowledge to circumvent the tosi.
Moreover, he was in favor with the government, a crowning grace to other qualities not valueless
in one of this commanding position.

No wonder that the enthusiasm of the populace was wild enough to bring the frankest delight
to his handsome sun-bronzed face as they rushed upon him in a frenzy of appreciation and bore
him aloft on their shoulders around the Piazza San Nicolò, almost dizzied with their haste
and the smallness of the circle opened to them in the little square by the throng who pressed
eagerly around him to grasp his hand--to wave their banners, to shout themselves hoarse for
the Nicolotti, for San Nicolò and San Raffaele, for Piero, gastaldo grande, for Venezia, for
San Marco, with "Bravi," "Felicitazioni," and every possible childish demonstration of delight.

Should not the Nicolotti--blessed be the Madonna!--always overcome the Castellani with Piero
at their head, in those party battles on the bridges which had now grown to be as serious a
factor in the lives of the gondoliers of Venice as they were disturbing to the citizens at
large, and therefore the more to the glory of the combatants?

Was he not their own representative--elected by the very voice of the people, as in those lost
days of their freedom the doges had been? And did not the rival faction so stand in awe of
the new gastaldo that from the moment of his nomination there had been disaffection in their ranks?

And now, as they shouted around him, many a sturdy red cap tossed his badge disdainfully into
the throng and snatched a black bonnet from the nearest head to wave it aloft with cries of
"the black cap! The Nicolotti! Viva San Nicolò!"

And again, when Piero essayed to prove himself equal to his honors, his few words dropped without
sound upon the storm of vivas--"We do not want talking for our gastaldo--but doing!"

Since this happening Piero had been indeed a great man among the people--a popular idol, with
a degree of power difficult to estimate by one unfamiliar with the customs and traditions of
Venice; holding the key, practically, to all the traghetti of Venice, since even before this
sweeping disaffection of the Castellani the Nicolotti were invariably acknowledged to be the
more powerful faction, so that now it was a trifling matter to coerce a rival offending traghetto;
and gondoliers, private and public, were, to say the least, courteous toward these nobles of
the Nicolotti, who were dealing with tosi as never before in the history of Venice.

In truth, but for those unknown observors in secret service to the terrible Inquisition,--an
army sixty thousand strong, one third of the entire population of Venice,--impressed from nobles,
gondoliers, ecclesiastics, and people of every grade and profession, from every quarter of
the city, and charged to lose nothing of any detail that might aid the dreaded chiefs of the
Inquisition in their silent and fearful work--the power of Piero would have been virtually
limitless. These three terrible unknown chiefs of the Inquisition were never named among the
people except with bated breath, as "i tre di sopra," the three above, lest some echo should
condemn the speakers. But the unsought favor of the government was as much a check as an assistance
to Piero's schemes, bringing him so frequently into requisition for official intrigues that
he had less opportunity for counterplotting, while his knowledge of State secrets which he
might not compromise, of the far-reaching vision of Inquisitorial eyes, and of the swift and
relentless execution of those unknown osservatori who had been unfaithful to their primal duty
as spies, made him dare less where others were concerned than he would have foretold before
he had been admitted to these unexpected official confidences; while for himself he had absolutely
no fears--having but one life to order or to lose, and caring less for its length than for
the freedom of its ruling while it remained to him.

And still Marina was, as she had always been, the gentlest influence in his reckless life,--to
some slight extent an inspiring one,--steadying his daring yet generous instincts into a course
that was occasionally nearer to nobility than he could ever have chanced upon without her,
yet never able to instil a higher motive power than came from pleasing her.

It was Piero who had escorted Fra Francesco to the borders of the Roman dominions, guarding
him from pitfalls and discovery until he was free to undertake his barefooted penitential pilgrimage
upon Roman soil; and from no faith nor sympathy in the gentle friar's views, but only because
he was dear to Marina.

And through Piero's agents, established under threats as terrible as those of the Ten themselves,
had come the news which, from time to time, he unfolded to her; while the same secret agent
brought perhaps a rumor which the gastaldo grande confided to the Ten, wherewith some convent
plotting was unmasked, or other news so greatly to the keeping of the peace of the Serene Republic,
that Piero might have bought therewith propitiation for all those sins against it, of which
the government was happily in ignorance. Now it was a hint of a plot in embryo to seize the
arsenal, involving some members of distinction in the households of resident ambassadors; or
word of the whereabouts of that wandering, barefooted emissary with plenary powers, who had
hitherto eluded Venetian vigilance.

It was Piero also--although he never confessed to it--who, out of compassion for Marina's priestly
proclivities when she lay critically ill, had made it possible for the Jesuits to remove those
coffers of treasure which, in spite of strictest orders to the contrary, accompanied them on
their flight from Venice; it was not that he took part against Venice in the quarrel, but that
the penalty of exile seemed to him sufficient, especially as Marina had a weakness for priests;
and he could be generous in his use of power, though a man less daring would not have risked
the freak. But there was a masterful pleasure in outwitting the Signoria and the Ten, lessened
only by the consciousness that he must keep this triumph to himself, and Piero also knew how
to hold his tongue--for discretion was a needful grace in that strange time of barbaric lawlessness
shrouded in a more than Eastern splendor.

But even Piero sometimes quickened his step as he passed the beautiful sea façade of the Ducal
Palace, whose rose-tinted walls seemed made only to reflect sunshine; for perchance he guessed
the name of that victim who hung with covered face between the columns, bearing in bold letters
on his breast, by way of warning, the nature of the crime for which he paid such awful penalty--some
crime against the State. "To-day," said Piero to himself, "it is this poor devil who cried
to me to shield him when I was forced to denounce him to the Signoria; to-morrow, for some
caprice of their Excellencies--it may be Piero Salin!"

But the gastaldo relapsed easily into such philosophy as he knew. "By the blessed San Marco
and San Teodoro themselves!" he was ready to cry, as he reached his gondola, "there must always
be a last 'to-morrow'!"

XXV

Life had begun to move again, with slow, clogged wheels, in the Ca' Giustiniani since that
sudden favorable change had come to the Lady Marina. Her husband was no longer excused from
attendance in the Council Halls of the Republic, and whether to quicken his interest in the
affairs of the government or because, in due course, the time had come when a young noble so
full of promise should take a prominent place in her councils, he was now constantly called
upon to fill important offices in transient committees. Certainly there was some strange, ubiquitous
power in that watchful governmental eye; and in the Broglio it had been whispered that if the
young Senator were not held constant by multiplied honors and responsibilities the home influence
might be fateful to the house of Giustiniani--a house too princely and too important to Venice
to be suffered to tolerate any sympathy with Rome. Giustinian the elder, being pronounced in
his patriotic partizanship, had replaced the ambassador to his Most Catholic Majesty of Spain,
whose attempts at conciliation were so ludicrously inadequate that a court of less astute diplomacy
than Venice might have been tempted to withdraw its embassy. Spain and Venice had been stepping
through a stately dance, as it were, decorous and princely,--though scarcely misleading,--an
interminable round of bows and dignified advances leading no whither, since for a forward step
there was a corresponding backward motion to complete the chassé, and all in that gracious
circle which flatters the actor and the onlooker with a pleasurable sense of progress; but
the suspense as to the issue of this minuet was all on the side of Spain, and Venice had patience
to spare for these pretty time-filling paces which presented such semblance of careless ease
to the watching embassies. England, with an understanding quickened by her own experience,
took a serious interest in the quarrel. But his Most Christian Majesty of France was foremost
among the princes in efforts to hasten the conciliation of the disputants, and when Henry of
France offered to mediate between the powers, Venice said him not nay. For if she would take
no personal step toward conciliation, she yet held no code by which the intercession of a monarch
might seem to lessen her dignity; and the coming of so princely an envoy as the Cardinal di
Gioiosa was celebrated with fêtes meet to grace the reception of so high a dignitary of the
Church of Rome.

Hence Venice, under the ban, suggested rather a lively tourney in some field of cloth of gold,
than an excommunicated nation in its time of mourning; there were frequent interchanges of
diplomatic courtesies--receptions to special embassies which had lost nothing of their punctilious
splendor. There had always been time in Venice for absolute decorum, and now there was not
less than usual, since her conduct had been denounced--though Venice and her prestige were
untarnished and the world was looking on!

Marcantonio, in spite of his deep home anxiety, was becoming more and more absorbed in the
affairs of a government which made such claims upon him, and for the honor of his house, by
all Venetian tradition, he must give to the full that which was exacted of him. But he worked
without the brilliancy and enthusiasm of a few months past--as a man steadied by some great
sorrow, striving more strenuously to give of his best where honor is concerned, because he
is conscious that the heaviness of his heart makes all duty irksome.

For Marina, with returning health,--the physicians spoke of her thus since they had pronounced
her out of danger,--had not fully returned to him; it was less her whiteness and wanness that
oppressed him than that nameless change in the face and eyes which suggested a ceaseless, passionate
suppression of the deep, impassioned self, under the listless exterior; there was an immeasurable
loss in the sweetness of life to them both, though never since the early days of their love
had he been so tender and patient, so eager to gladden her in little ways. But she answered
his love more often with a mute caress of her hand upon his cheek than with smiles or words--yet
with a touch that lingered, as if to assure him that her love was not less, though she herself
was changed.

Something terribly real lay between them, of which it seemed better not to speak, since all
his efforts to change her point of view had failed. It was utterly sad to have her so nearly
herself again, and yet so far from him. Life was hard for this young senator with his multiplied
honors, his wealth, and prestige. Marina had always given impetus to his life; now it was he
who watched and cared for her, while she seemed to have no will for anything, yet had lost
that old charming ingenuousness which had underlain her power. He had promised himself, out
of his new pathetic yearning when she had begun to improve, that never again should she know
an ungratified wish, yet now he feared that she would give him no opportunity of granting a
request, so apathetic had she grown. But one day, when he was trying to rouse her to express
a desire, she laid her hand eagerly on his, asking a thing so strange that unconsciously he
started away from her.

"Marco, mio, take me to Rome!"

For a moment, in spite of all that had gone before, the young Senator was betrayed into a forgetfulness
of his tender mood--it was so strange, this request of a Lady of the Giustiniani, to choose
Rome rather than Venice at a time of contest; but her face and manner and speech were luminous
with hope; she was radiant again, as she had not been for many months; yet the words escaped
from him unintentionally and sternly:

"To Rome!"

"Yes, Marco, thou and I and the little one! We should be so happy again in the palazzo Donatello,
where baby came to us."

"Marina, a Giustinian abides by Venice. From the days when every man of the Ca' Giustiniani--save
only the priest, who might not take up arms--laid down his life before Lepanto, none hath ever
forsaken Venice."

"It is not to forsake our Venice, Marco mio!" she cried, with growing eagerness, "but to serve
her--to plead with the Holy Father that he will remove the curse and let all the prayers of
Venice ascend again to the Madre Beatissima, who listens no more! It is a service for a Giustinian
to render!"

Her whole soul pleaded in face and gesture, beautiful and compelling; he felt her old power
reasserting itself; he almost groaned aloud as he put up his hand to shut out this beseeching
vision of the wife whom he loved before all things but honor--lest he, being among the trusted
rulers of his country, should fail to Venice out of the great joy of granting to Marina the
happiness she craved.

Not for an instant did the young Venetian noble question his duty, while with head averted,
lest Marina should guess his struggle, he invoked that ever-present image of Venetia regnant,
which all her children recognize, to stay him from forgetting it until this temptation were
past and he could be strong again; but now he knew that he was weak from an irrepressible yearning
to clasp Marina in his arms and grant her heart's desire--at whatever cost; he dared not touch
her lest he should yield.

