By J. Loewenberg.

Introduction to the Philosophy of History. Translated by J. Sibree.

The Philosophy of Law. Translated by J. Loewenberg.

Introduction to the Philosophy of Art. Translated by J. Loewenberg.

#Bettina von Arnim#

The Life of Bettina von Arnim. By Henry Wood.

Goethe's Correspondence with a Child. Translated by Wallace Smith Murray.

#Karl Lebrecht Immermann#

 Immermann and His Drama Merlin. By Martin Schütze.

 Immermann's Münchhausen. By Allen Wilson Porterfield.

 The Oberhof. Translated by Paul Bernard Thomas.

#Karl Ferdinand Gutzkow#

 Gutzkow and Young Germany. By Starr Willard Cutting.

 Sword and Queue. Translated by Grace Isabel Colbron.

German Lyric Poetry from 1830 to 1848. By John S. Nollen.

#Anastasius Grün#

 A Salon Scene. Translated by Sarah T. Barrows.

#Nikolaus Lenau#

 Prayer. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork.

 Sedge Songs. Translated by Kate Freiligrath-Kroeker.

 Songs by the Lake. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork.

 The Postilion. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork.

 To the Beloved from Afar. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork.

 The Three Gipsies. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork.

 My Heart. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork.

#Eduard Mörike#

 An Error Chanced. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork.

 A Song for Two in the Night. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork.

 Early Away. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork.

 The Forsaken Maiden. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 Weyla's Song. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 Seclusion. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 The Soldier's Betrothed. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 The Old Weathercock: An Idyll. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 Think of It, My Soul. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 Erinna to Sappho. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

        *        *        *        *        *

Mozart's Journey from Vienna to Prague. Translated by Florence Leonard

#Annette Elizabeth von Droste-Hülshoff#

 Pentecost. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 The House in the Heath. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 The Boy on the Moor. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 On the Tower. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 The Desolate House. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 The Jew's Beech-Tree. Translated by Lillie Winter

#Ferdinand Freiligrath#

 The Duration of Love. Translated by M.G. in Chambers' Journal

 The Emigrants. Translated by C.T. Brooks

 The Lion's Ride. Translated by C.T. Brooks

 The Spectre-Caravan. Translated by J.C. Mangan

 Had I at Mecca's Gate been Nourished. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 Wild Flowers. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

 The Dead to the Living. Translated by Bayard Taylor

 Hurrah, Germania! In Pall Mall Gazette, London

 The Trumpet of Gravelotte. Translated by Kate Freiligrath-Kroeker

#Moritz Graf von Strachwitz#

 Douglas of the Bleeding Heart. Translated by Charles Wharton Stork

#Georg Herwegh#

The Stirrup-Cup. Translated by William G. Howard

#Emanuel Geibel#

 The Watchman's Song. Translated by A.I. du P. Coleman

 The Call of the Road. Translated by A.I. du P. Coleman

 Autumn Days. Translated by A.I. du P. Coleman

 The Death of Tiberius. Translated by A.I. du P. Coleman

ILLUSTRATIONS--VOLUME VII

Arco. By Benno Becker

Georg Wilhelm Frederich Hegel. By Schlesinger

Royal Old Museum in Berlin. By Schinkel

Bettina von Arnim

The Goethe Monument. By Bettina von Arnim

Karl Lebrecht Immermann. By C.T. Lessing

The Master of the Oberhof. By Benjamin Vautier

The Oberhof. By Benjamin Vautier

The Freemen's Tribunal. By Benjamin Vautier

Lisbeth. By Benjamin Vautier

Oswald, the Hunter. By Benjamin Vautier

Karl Ferdinand Gutzkow

The Potsdam Guard. By Adolph von Menzel

King Frederick William I of Prussia. By R. Siemering

King Frederick William I and His "Tobacco Collegium". By Adolph von Menzel

Anastasius Grün

Nikolaus Lenau

Evening on the Shore. By Hans am Ende

Eduard Mörike. By Weiss

Annette von Droste-Hülshoff

The Farm House. By Hans am Ende

Ferdinand Freiligrath. By J Hasenclever

Dusk on the Dead Sea. By Eugen Bracht

Death on the Barricade. By Alfred Rethel

George Herwegh

Emanuel Geibel. By Hader

Journeying. By Ludwig Richter

THE LIFE OF GEORG WILHELM FRIEDRICH HEGEL

BY J. LOEWENBERG, PH.D.

Assistant in Philosophy, Harvard University

Among students of philosophy the mention of Hegel's name arouses at once a definite emotion.
Few thinkers indeed have ever so completely fascinated the minds of their sympathetic readers,
or have so violently repulsed their unwilling listeners, as Hegel has.

The feelings of attraction to Hegel or repulsion from him do not emanate from his personality.
Unlike Spinoza's, his life offers nothing to stir the imagination. Briefly, some of his biographical
data are as follows: He was born at Stuttgart, the capital of Würtemberg, August 27, 1770.
His father was a government official, and the family belonged to the upper middle class. Hegel
received his early education at the Latin School and the Gymnasium of his native town. At both
these institutions, as well as at the University of Tübingen which he entered in 1788 to study
theology, he distinguished himself as an eminently industrious, but not as a rarely gifted
student. The certificate which he received upon leaving the University in 1793 speaks of his
good character, his meritorious acquaintance with theology and languages, and his meagre knowledge
of philosophy. This does not quite represent his equipment, however, for his private reading
and studies carried him far beyond the limits of the regular curriculum. After leaving the
University he spent seven years as family tutor in Switzerland and in Frankfurt-on-the-Main.
Soon after, in 1801, we find him as Privat-Docent; then, in 1805, as professor at the University
of Jena. His academic activities were interrupted by the battle of Jena. For the next two years
we meet him as an editor of a political journal at Bamberg, and from 1808 to 1816 as rector
of the Gymnasium at Nuremberg. He was then called to a professorship of philosophy at Heidelberg.
In 1818 he was called to Berlin to fill the vacancy left by the death of Fichte. From this
time on until his death in 1831, he was the recognized dictator of one of the most powerful
philosophic schools in the history of thought.

It is no easy task to convey an adequate idea of Hegel's philosophy within the limits of a
short introduction. There is, however, one central thought animating the vast range of his
whole philosophic system which permits of non-technical statement. This thought will be more
easily grasped, if we consider first the well-known concept of permanence and change. They
may be said to constitute the most fundamental distinction in life and in thought. Religion
and poetry have always dwelt upon their tragic meaning. That there is nothing new under the
sun and that we are but "fair creatures of an hour" in an ever-changing world, are equally
sad reflections. Interesting is the application of the difference between permanence and change
to extreme types of temperament. We may speak loosely of the "static" and the "dynamic" temperaments,
the former clinging to everything that is traditional, conservative, and abiding in art, religion,
philosophy, politics, and life; the latter everywhere pointing to, and delighting in, the fluent,
the novel, the evanescent. These extreme types, by no means rare or unreal, illustrate the
deep-rooted need of investing either permanence or change with a more fundamental value. And
to the value of the one or the other, philosophers have always endeavored to give metaphysical
expression.

