NEW YORK

           AT THE

LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION

      ST. LOUIS, 1904

       REPORT OF THE

  NEW YORK STATE COMMISSION

  PREPARED AND COMPILED BY
     DELANCEY M. ELLIS

           1907

REPORT

ALBANY, N.Y., March 25, 1907

Hon. CHARLES E. HUGHES, Governor:

DEAR SIR.--We beg to submit herewith, in accordance with the provisions of the statute, the
final report of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission of the State of New York.

Very respectfully

EDWARD H. HARRIMAN LOUIS STERN EDWARD LYMAN BILL WILLIAM BERRI FREDERICK R. GREEN LEWIS NIXON
JOHN C. WOODBURY FRANK S. McGRAW JOHN K. STEWART JAMES H. CALLANAN JOHN YOUNG MRS. NORMAN E. MACK

CHARLES A. BALL

Secretary and Chief Executive Officer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Chapter

 1. Introduction and historical sketch

 2. Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission, State of New York

 3. New York State Building

 4. Functions held in the New York State Building

 5. Dedication Day

 6. New York State Week

 7. Brooklyn Day

 8. Thanksgiving Day

 9. Educational exhibit and schedule of awards

10. Fine arts exhibit and schedule of awards

11. Agriculture and live stock exhibit and schedule of awards

12. Horticulture exhibit and schedule of awards

13. Forest, fish and game exhibit and schedule of awards

14. Mines and metallurgy exhibit and schedule of awards

15. Social economy exhibit and schedule of awards

16. Financial statement

Table of Full Page Illustrations [this table did not appear in the original book]

Frontispiece: HONORABLE BENJAMIN B. ODELL, JR. GOVERNOR 1901-1904

Page
   8  FESTIVAL HALL AND GRAND BASIN
  15  EDWARD H. HARRIMAN, PRESIDENT, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSION
  25  WILLIAM BERRI, VICE PRESIDENT, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSION
  35  EDWARD LYMAN BILL, TREASURER, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSION
  45* LOUIS STERN, CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, NEW YORK STATE
      COMMISSION
  50  UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT BUILDING
  59  NEW YORK STATE BUILDING
  71* JOHN K. STEWART, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSIONER
  80  NEW YORK STATE BUILDING, MAIN ENTRANCE
  87* JAMES H. CALLANAN, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSIONER
  95  NEW YORK STATE BUILDING, ASSEMBLY HALL
 104  APOTHESIS OF ST. LOUIS (NIEHAUS)
 109* LEWIS NIXON, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSIONER
 112  GERMAN PAVILION
 121  NEW YORK STATE BUILDING, ENTRANCE HALL
      (See section "THE ARCHITECTURE" in chapter III)
 126  EAST PAVILION AND CASCADE
 133* JOHN C. WOODBURY, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSIONER
 145* FREDERICK R. GREEN, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSIONER
 155* FRANK S. McGRAW, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSIONER
 162  PALACE OF LIBERAL ARTS
 171* JOHN YOUNG, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSIONER
 181  MRS. NORMAN E. MACK, NEW YORK STATE COMMISSIONER
 190  STATUE OF JOSEPH HENRY, ELECTRICIAN (FLANAGAN)
 195  CHARLES A. BALL, SECRETARY AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, NEW YORK
      STATE COMMISSION
 200  PALACE OF EDUCATION, WEST ENTRANCE
 207  EDUCATIONAL EXHIBIT
 215  EDUCATIONAL EXHIBIT, COMMON SCHOOL STATISTICS
 227  EDUCATIONAL EXHIBIT, FOURTH GRADE ALCOVE
 239  EDUCATIONAL EXHIBIT, TRADE SCHOOLS, SPECIAL SCHOOLS, BUSINESS
      EDUCATION ALCOVE
 250  "SHOOTING UP THE TOWN" (REMINGTON)
 257  FESTIVAL HALL AND CASCADE GARDENS
 267  DE LANCEY M. ELLIS, Director of Education and Social Economy
      CHARLES H. VICK, Superintendent of Horticulture
      CLARENCE LUCE, Architect
      J. H. DURKEE, Superintendent of Agriculture and Live Stock
      HARRY W. WATROUS, Chairman Committee on Art
 277  GRAND BASIN AND PALACE OF ELECTRICITY
 284  FLORAL CLOCK AND AGRICULTURAL BUILDING
 287  AGRICULTURE EXHIBIT, DISPLAY OF VEGETABLES
 301  AGRICULTURE EXHIBIT, DISPLAY OF SEEDS
 313  AGRICULTURE EXHIBIT
 325  NEW YORK CITY BUILDING (See chapter VI)
 337  EDUCATIONAL EXHIBIT, FROM ENTRANCE (See section "THE
      INSTALLATION" in chapter IX)
 349  LOUISIANA PURCHASE MONUMENT, PLAZA ST. LOUIS, AND VARIED
      INDUSTRIES BUILDING
 360  GRAND BASIN, BOAT LANDING
 365  HORTICULTURE EXHIBIT
 373  HORTICULTURE EXHIBIT, DISPLAY OF GRAPES
 385  HORTICULTURE EXHIBIT
 397  EXHIBIT OF STATE INSTITUTIONS FOR JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
      (see section "STATE BOARD OF CHARITIES" in chapter XV)
 409  EXHIBIT OF BERTILLON AND FINGER PRINT SYSTEMS OF IDENTIFICATION
      (see section "STATE DEPARTMENT OF PRISONS" in chapter XV)
 421  MINES AND METALLURGY EXHIBIT, SLATE MANTEL
      (see section "SLATE" in chapter XIV)
 427  FOREST, FISH AND GAME EXHIBIT, CAMP ADIRONDACK
 436  APPROACH TO WEST PAVILION
 445  FOREST, FISH AND GAME EXHIBIT, NATIVE BIRDS
 457  FOREST, FISH AND GAME EXHIBIT, CAMP ADIRONDACK, INTERIOR
      (see section "ATTRACTIVE FEATURES" in chapter XIII)
 470  PHYSICAL LIBERTY (MCNEIL)
 477  MAGNETIC SEPARATOR WORKING ON NEW YORK ORES
 487  MINES AND METALLURGY EXHIBIT
 495  MINES AND METALLURGY, LIBERAL ARTS, AND LAGOON
 500  MACHINERY BUILDING AND LAGOON
 507  ANCIENT AND MODERN METHODS OF CARING FOR THE INSANE
 515  EXHIBIT OF STATE DEPARTMENT OF PRISONS
      (see section "STATE DEPARTMENT OF PRISONS" in chapter XV)
 523  EXHIBIT OF STATE BOARD OF CHARITIES, CARE OF DESTITUTE ADULTS
      (see section "STATE BOARD OF CHARITIES" in chapter XV)
 528  ON THE PIKE
 535  EXHIBIT OF STATE COMMISSION IN LUNACY, HOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE
      (see section "STATE COMMISSION IN LUNACY" in chapter XV)

* These photographs are also labelled "Copyright 1903 [or 1904], by Pirie MacDonald, Photographer
of Men, N.Y."

CHAPTER I

Introduction and Historical Sketch

HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE

The Louisiana Purchase Exposition was held in the city of St. Louis in 1904, in commemoration
of the acquisition in 1803 of the vast territory west of the Mississippi, then called Louisiana.
The transfer is generally regarded as one of the most important events in our national history
and stands on record as the greatest acquisition of territory ever made by peaceful methods.

The territory was ceded to France by Spain by the secret treaty of San Ildefonso in 1800. This
aroused to intense excitement the people of the West, who were inclined to give credit to the
rumor that the army of forty thousand men sent by Napoleon (who was responsible for the negotiation
of that treaty) were in reality to take military possession of Louisiana and the Floridas instead
of to suppress the insurrection in San Domingo, the ostensible object. France and England had
been struggling for many years for supremacy in the Western Continent, and in the possession
of this vast territory Napoleon foresaw a prosperous New France. But there were many complications
arising at home. Important political questions demanded attention, and the great Napoleon soon
realized that he could not hope to cope successfully with the two great problems lying at such
a great distance apart.

NEGOTIATIONS FOR TRANSFER OF TERRITORY

At that time our country was interested in procuring possession of the site of New Orleans
and the free passage of the Mississippi river forever for all American citizens, and negotiations
were opened for their purchase by Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration of Independence,
and at that time third President of the United States.

During the negotiations Napoleon suggested the transfer of the whole Louisiana territory and
the transaction was brought to a most successful conclusion, the signers of the treaty being
James Monroe, Robert R. Livingston, and F.B. Marbois, the representative of Napoleon. It was
a significant bargain. By it Napoleon formed closer bonds of friendship between France and
the United States, and prevented any possibility of the territory falling into the hands of
Great Britain. He prophesied that this Republic would eventually become a world power and a
commercial rival to England. How completely his prophecy was fulfilled. Our country attained
possession of a vast territory embracing more than a million square miles, an area greater
than the combined areas of the British Isles, France, Germany, Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands
and Italy, the consideration being a figure less than that representing the value of a single
square block in any one of our great cities, or an amount much smaller than has been yielded
by any one of many mines within the boundaries of the territory. Twelve flourishing states
and two territories have since been carved out of Louisiana, and the center of our population
is rapidly moving towards that region which was once known as the wilderness of the West.

ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

It is a matter of the utmost gratification that the State of New York played so important a
part in this great event in the person of Robert R. Livingston, who was then United States
Minister to France. Dr. Livingston, the title of LL.D. having been conferred upon him by the
University of the State of New York, was one of the leading statesmen of his day. A graduate
of Kings (now Columbia) College, he began his career in the practice of law in New York city,
and was made Recorder of the city in 1773. Elected to the Continental Congress in 1775, he
was appointed one of a committee of five to draft the Declaration of Independence, but enforced
absence from Philadelphia made it impossible for him to sign the document. He was soon after
elected Chancellor of the State of New York, and as such administered the oath of office to
George Washington as first President of the United States. His previous training in public
affairs admirably fitted him for assuming the important duties leading to the transfer of the
Louisiana territory, and to him as much as to any individual belongs the credit for the successful
consummation of the transaction.

At the Exposition a handsome statue of Livingston, by Lukemann, was erected in the Cascade
Gardens, on the approach to the West Pavilion. Upon the front of the New York State Building
appeared this legend: "Robert R. Livingston of New York, Minister to France 1801-1805, inaugurated
the negotiations for the Louisiana Purchase and was the first to sign the treaty."

ORIGIN OF THE EXPOSITION

The first action looking towards the commemoration of the Louisiana Purchase was taken at a
meeting of the Missouri Historical Society in September, 1898, when a committee of fifty citizens
was appointed to take the preliminary steps looking to the observance of the occasion. This
committee recommended the submission of the question to a convention of delegates, representing
all the Louisiana Purchase states, and at this convention, which was held at the Southern Hotel,
St. Louis, January 10, 1899, it was decided to hold a World's Fair as the most fitting commemoration
of the one hundredth anniversary of the acquisition of the Louisiana territory. An executive
committee, with the Hon. David R. Francis as chairman, was appointed to carry out the undertaking,
and this committee determined that at least $15,000,000, the amount paid to France for the
territory, would be needed.

ACTION BY CONGRESS

Congress passed a bill in June, 1900, carrying a provisional appropriation of $5,000,000, and
pledging governmental support if the city of St. Louis raised $10,000,000. The people went
to work with a will and had raised $5,000,000 by popular subscription early in January, 1901,
and the following January thirtieth an ordinance was passed by the St. Louis Municipal Assembly
authorizing the issuance of $5,000,000 in city bonds. On March twelfth President McKinley appointed
a National Commission of nine members, and in August issued a proclamation inviting all the
nations of the world to participate in the Exposition. Owing to labor difficulties and delay
in securing construction material it soon became evident that it would be impossible to hold
the fair during the year 1903, as originally planned. Legislation being necessary in order
to provide for the necessary postponement, a bill was passed by Congress and approved by President
Roosevelt June 25, 1902, authorizing the holding of the fair in 1904 instead of 1903, as originally
determined.

Beginning with the basic appropriation of $15,000,000, [Footnote: In the winter of 1904 a bill
was passed by Congress authorizing a Government loan of $4,600,000 to the Exposition Company,
to be repaid in instalments from the gate receipts.  The loan was entirely canceled early in
November, 1904.] as described above, to which had been added $1,000,000 appropriated by the
State of Missouri, the great enterprise was projected on a $50,000,000 basis. It was planned
to make the universal Exposition at St. Louis the most comprehensive and wonderful that the
world had ever seen. How well its projectors succeeded is a matter of recent history. How completely
all previous expositions were eclipsed has been told many times in picture and in print.

THE SITE

The site chosen for the Exposition included the western portion of Forest Park, one of the
finest parks in the United States. Its naturally rolling ground afforded many opportunities
for effective vistas, which were quickly embraced by the Exposition Company's landscape artists.
Containing 1,240 acres, it was a tract approximately two miles long and one mile wide.

The grounds might be said to have been divided into two general sections, the dividing line
being Skinker road. To the east was the main picture, so called, which was formed by the grouping
of eight magnificent exhibit palaces around Festival Hall, the Colonnade of States and Cascade
Gardens.

THE MAIN PICTURE

Festival Hall stood upon a rise of ground well above the principal exhibit palaces, and its
majestic dome surmounted by a gilded figure of "Victory," the first "Victory" to take the form
of a man, was visible from most any part of the grounds. The grouping of the exhibit palaces
was geometric in arrangement, in shape like an open fan, the ribs of the fan being the waterways
and plazas between which the exhibit palaces were located.

THE ARCHITECTURE

The architecture, while varied and in some instances striking, was still so modified as to
make a most harmonious whole. For purity in architecture the best example was the Palace of
Education, which was built on the lines of the Italian Renaissance. For most striking architectural
effects the Mines and Metallurgy building was invariably pointed out. It was of composite architecture,
comprising features of the Egyptian, Byzantine and Greek. The stately obelisks which guarded
its entrance ways and the bas-relief panels which formed its outer facade, were objects of
universal interest.

To the southeast of the main group of buildings, and gracefully clustered among the trees,
were the state pavilions. Along the extreme northern portion of the grounds for a mile stretched
the amusement highway, known as the Pike.

OTHER FEATURES

To the west of Skinker road were located the Administration buildings, and, with one or two
exceptions, the pavilions of foreign governments, the Agriculture and Horticulture buildings,
the Philippine Reservation and the Department of Anthropology. The Intramural railroad, seven
miles in length, passed the principal points of interest and enabled visitors to get about
the grounds with speed and comfort.

To convert this great tract of land into a beautiful park with well-kept roadways embellished
with velvety lawns and magnificent flower beds, would seem to be a task greater than man could
perform within the short space of time available for the completion of the Exposition. That
it was done, and well done, is a matter of history.

PROCESSES AS WELL AS PRODUCTS

It was early determined that the great Fair should be one of processes, as well as of products;
wherever possible there should be life and motion; that the exhibits should answer the question,
"How is it done?" as well as "What is it?" The result was that the Exposition became a constantly
changing scene of moving objects and an educational force many times greater than any of its
predecessors. The student of Mechanics, Electricity, Pedagogy, the Applied Arts, and other
kindred subjects could obtain here within a limited area valuable data, which otherwise could
only be collected at the expense of much time and considerable money.

DEDICATION CEREMONIES

The formal dedication ceremonies covered three days, beginning April 30, 1903, the actual date
of the Centennial Anniversary of the signing of the treaty, and one year previous to the opening
of the Exposition. Our commonwealth was fittingly represented at that time, a special appropriation
of $50,000 for the same having been made by the Legislature. Governor Odell and staff, State
officers, a joint committee from the Legislature and the members of the Louisiana Purchase
Exposition Commission attended. There were also present a provisional regiment of infantry
of the National Guard, under command of Colonel S. M. Welch, N.G., N.Y.; a provisional division
of the Naval Militia under command of Lieutenant E.M. Harman, Second Battalion; and Squadron
"A" of New York, under command of Major Oliver H. Bridgman.

THE FIRST DAY'S PROGRAM

The program for the first day consisted of a grand military parade in the morning and exercises
in the Liberal Arts building at two o'clock in the afternoon, followed by fireworks in the
evening. The day was cold and unpleasant, and a chill wind blowing from the north caused visitors
to seek comfort in heavy wraps.

The Governor of the State of New York and her troops met with a continuous ovation along the
line of march of the great military parade, and from every side compliments and felicitations
were bestowed upon the State's representatives for so hearty and imposing a participation in
an event a thousand miles from home.

The occasion was graced by the presence of the President of the United States, Theodore Roosevelt,
and by ex-President Grover Cleveland, both of whom made extended remarks at the afternoon exercises.

ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT.

The address of President Roosevelt was replete with historical allusions and pointed epigrams.

THE SECOND DAY'S PROGRAM

The second day was designated "Diplomatic Day," and was devoted to a luncheon to the visiting
diplomats in the Administration Building, followed by exercises in Festival Hall, at which
time addresses were made by Honorable John M. Thurston of the National Commission, who was
president of the day; Honorable David R. Francis, president of the Exposition Company; M. Jean
J. Jusserand, the French Ambassador, and Senor Don Emilio de Ojeda, the Spanish Minister. In
the evening a brilliant reception was given to the Diplomatic Corps at the St. Louis Club.

THE THIRD DAY'S PROGRAM

The third day, Saturday, May second, was officially designated "State Day," and the exercises
consisted of a huge civic parade, which consumed two hours in passing a given point, and exercises
at two o'clock in the Liberal Arts building, over which ex-Senator William Lindsay of the National
Commission presided. Addresses were made by Governor Dockery, who welcomed the governors and
delegations from the various states and by Governor Odell of New York, who responded. His brilliant
address, which was frequently punctuated by applause, follows:

ADDRESS OF GOVERNOR ODELL

"Governor Dockery, Ladies and Gentlemen:

"There is no phase of American history which should inspire us with greater pride than the
consummation of the purchase of the Louisiana tract, an event which opened the pathway to the
West, and made possible the powerful nation to which we owe our allegiance. Trade, the inspiration
for travel, which brought about the discovery and civilization of the Western Hemisphere, would
have demanded inevitably the cession to the United States of the vast regions beyond the Mississippi.
Except, however, for the peaceful and diplomatic measures adopted through the wisdom of Thomas
Jefferson, this territory could only have been acquired by the sacrifice of human life and
the expenditure of untold treasure. That Robert Livingston, a citizen of the Empire State,
became the ambassador of the great commoner at the court of France and that it was due to his
skill and intelligence that Napoleon was brought to an understanding of the conditions as they
existed and of the determination of our then young Republic to prevent the building up of foreign
colonies at our very threshold, is a cause for congratulation to the people of the State I
represent, and renders the duty which has been assigned to me, therefore, doubly pleasant.
Memorable as was this event, and of great importance to the future growth of the Republic,
it left its imprint not only upon America, but upon Europe as well. Through it the Napoleonic
ambition to develop a vast plan of colonization which threatened the peace of the world was
thwarted. The dismemberment of the French possessions which soon followed resulted in the grouping
together of the various states of Europe into vast empires whose relations with our country
are such that encroachment or territorial aggrandizement upon this hemisphere are forever impossible.
Spain, whose waning power was then apparent, was no longer a menace, and thus rendered possible
the acquisition of the remaining stretch of territory which made our possessions secure from
the Gulf to the Canadian line. While, therefore, as Americans we are prone to the belief that
if the necessity had arisen we should have been able to wrest this rich and fertile territory
from even the strongest hands, it is well for us to understand, however, that even the diplomacy
of which we boast would have been futile except for the failure of Napoleon in San Domingo
and his pressing need of funds to permit him to face the enemies of the French. 'Westward Ho!'
was the cry of the Old World. From the time when the genius of Columbus accepted the theories
of the earlier astronomers the imagination and cupidity of adventurous spirits had been excited
by tales of 'far off Cathay.' One hundred years ago the protocol for this territory was signed;
one hundred years of history has been written; a nation of three millions has expanded into
an empire of eighty millions of souls. Our country has not only become a power among the nations
of the world, but has taken an advanced position in the progress and work of civilization.
A westward passage to India was sought by Columbus and was still the aim of La Salle in his
adventurous voyage along the mighty Mississippi. To-day the American flag floats at the very
gates of China, and almost in sight of its walls, placed there by American valor and by American
arms in a struggle for human rights, and liberty. Trackless forests and undulating prairies
have become the highways for the speeding engines bearing the burdens of traffic to the Orient.
No longer are they the pasturage for the buffalo, but the source of food supply for the whole
world. Treasures of untold value have been laid bare by the ingenuity of man, but far beyond
this wealth are the products in grain and lowing kine which add their hundreds of millions
to the resources of our country, extending even beyond the dreams or the imagination of those
who sought only the precious metals with which to return with a competence to their native land.

"This is but the span of a century and to commemorate its glories we come from the eastern
section, from the earlier colonies to congratulate the people of the West upon the results
which we as a nation have achieved. So few the years, yet how notable the history. Upon this
soil began those battles which ended in the emancipation of the slave. From the earlier settlers
has come a blending of the vigor of the Anglo-Saxon with the Teutonic and Latin races, resulting
in that composite type which we are wont to recognize and regard as the type of the true American.
Aside from the commercial and industrial results which followed the acquisition of this vast
and fertile territory, and the building up of the large marts and towns which everywhere blend
with its magnificent scenery, the definition of the power and extent of our Constitution was
most important. At its inception, coming at a time when the framers of the Constitution were
not only able to interpret their work, but to give to it their moral force and support, it
was demonstrated that no constitutional limitations should retard the onward growth, the onward
rush of American civilization, until it should have reached the farthermost bounds of the far-off
Pacific. The barriers to human progress were by this interpretation removed and ranges of new
States have given effect to the democratic principles of our great Republic, and have made
of our country a Union--not of weak, impotent States--but a commonwealth of nations, bound
to each other through a centralized government by ties of allegiance, common interest and patriotism,
where freemen rule and where suffrage is more esteemed than wealth.

"These rights and their protection should receive our earnest thought. To aid in this work
we have given to the press the broadest possible liberty, a freedom which, however, should
never be abused. It should never be used as the medium for the circulation of charges or of
calumnies which are without foundation, and which please but the fancies of those in whose
minds there always exists envy and discontent. Such a misuse of privileges should be condemned
by all right-minded citizens. In its virtuous indignation with those who abuse public place
and power, it should be careful to do exact justice because in our busy and active lives we
have come to depend to a very great extent upon the wisdom and the honesty of these who edit
our newspapers for the information rightly to judge of the conditions, events and necessities
of our country. By means of the press, and with an intelligent citizenship, we may always feel
sure that there will come into our public life influences for good which will render our government
more stable, will add to its renown and to its glory and will insure for all the perpetuation
of those principles which have come down to us through the wisdom of our forefathers and which
have been amplified by the knowledge of succeeding generations. The great colleges and schools
with which we are blessed are performing a vital work, and these institutions for developing
a higher order of citizenship are of far more worth and of greater importance than all of the
ships of war or the arms of the nation in maintaining and upholding those policies which have
been adopted for our protection against foreign and domestic foes. But it is not alone a theoretical
education which is necessary for this higher citizenship. It must be linked with the knowledge
which comes of the study of the character, of the manner and methods of other nations than
our own, which leads the artisan to inspect and to improve upon the ingenuity of his fellows
of other lands. It is this feature in the exposition which is to take place upon this ground
next year that is particularly significant and important in the solution of the problems to
which I have referred. It is the contact, the friendly rivalry thus created, which brings about
a betterment and improvement of conditions. It is appropriate, therefore, that at the one hundredth
anniversary of this great event of our nation's history, we should gather here all of the ingenuity
and the genius of the past and the present, that we may contrast and make note of our progress.
This will be an inspiration for us in the performance of our duty, and will add to our affection
for our native and adopted land, and thus make of America a still greater power for good. A
patriotic people is possible only when there exists a love of country which has been inspired
by the stories of the past. It is the stories of the glorious past which encourage us to grapple
with the problems of the present and to look with disdain upon those who fail to solve them.
What fills our mind with more gratitude; what inspires us with greater heroism; what instills
more patriotism than the struggles of the early colonial wars? The Anglo-Saxon energy which
swept from this continent the dominion of those who sought only wealth, and which substituted
the thrift of the voyagers of the Mayflower and of the settlers of Jamestown--which Speaks
of the battles with the Indians, which tells of the glories not only of victories but of the
defeats of the heroes of the Revolution--all are incentives for purer and better citizenship.
And so, too, as we recall the struggles to the death of the descendants of these earlier settlers
in the greatest civil war that the world has ever known, let us to-day, both in charity and
in patriotism, remember them all as heroes. While we may differ as to the principles for which
they fought, there is no conflict of opinion, no divergence in thought, which bids us to-day
to withhold our admiration for all those who took part in that great struggle. It was but a
page in our nation's history, but a page shaded by human blood. It was but the working out
the will of Divine Providence, so that from its baptism of blood our republic might emerge
greater, stronger and more powerful than ever before, that there might thereafter be no sectional
hate, no dividing line in the patriotism of our people. This it is which should inspire us
to-day. More progress, a further advance in civilization, the extending of a helping hand to
the afflicted and the welcoming word to the oppressed, should be concrete evidence of America's
greatness and of the devotion of her people. Then it will be that our flag, now honored and
respected, honored because of the power and the intelligence of our people, will take on additional
lustre and additional significance as that of a nation that has accepted its duty to protect
humanity at home and abroad, and to stand as the pacificator and preserver of the peace of
the world."

At the conclusion of the afternoon exercises Governor Odell reviewed the New York State troops
on the plaza in Forest Park. The review was held in the presence of a large assemblage and
was an inspiring sight.

OPENING DAY

One year later, on April 30, 1904, the Exposition was formally opened to the public; elaborate
exercises being held at eleven o'clock at the foot of the Louisiana Purchase Monument on the
Plaza St. Louis. There were present a distinguished assemblage, including a delegation of the
Senate and the House of Representatives, the National Commission, the Board of Lady Managers,
representatives of foreign governments, Governors of States and their staffs, State Commissions,
United States Government Board, Exposition officials, and others. The exercises were opened
by a prayer by Rev. Frank W. Gunsaulus of Chicago, which was followed by an address by President
Francis. The Treasurer of the Exposition, William H. Thompson, as chairman of the committee
on grounds and buildings, introduced Isaac S. Taylor, who delivered the gold key to the buildings
to President Francis and presented diplomas to his staff. An address followed by Director of
Exhibits F.J.V. Skiff, who presented commissions to his staff, the chiefs of the various exhibit
departments. Next followed addresses in behalf of the city of St. Louis by Hon. Rolla Wells,
Mayor; in behalf of the National Commission by Hon. Thomas H. Carter, its President; in behalf
of the United States Senate by Senator Henry E. Burnham; in behalf of the House of Representatives
by Hon. James A. Tawney. New York State was especially honored in the selection of the president
of her commission to speak in behalf of the domestic exhibitors. Hon. Edward H. Harriman was
then introduced by President Francis.

ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT HARRIMAN

After briefly complimenting the President and Directors of the Exposition, Mr. Harriman said:

"Our 'Domestic Exhibitors' could have no higher testimonial than that furnished by the magnificent
buildings and grounds of this Exposition. We have here combined in brilliant variety the charms
and beauties of garden, forest, lake and stream, embellished by these splendid structures,
forming an harmonious whole certainly not equaled by any former Exposition. All credit is due
the President and Directors, whose intelligence and untiring labors have conquered all obstacles
and brought this World's Fair to a most auspicious and successful opening. One cannot view
the result of their labors without being deeply impressed with the magnitude of their undertaking,
and when we consider the exhibits which have been assembled within these grounds, we are led
irresistibly to an appreciation of the multitude of forces which contributed to this great
work, and particularly to the co-operation which must have existed to produce the result before us.

"I have the honor on this occasion to speak for our 'Domestic Exhibitors.' They are well represented
by their works before you, and by these works you can know them.

"These exhibits represent in concrete form the artistic and industrial development of this
country, and in viewing them one cannot but be impressed with the great improvement in the
conditions affecting our material and physical welfare and with the corresponding advancement
in our intellectual and esthetic life.

"Let us consider for a moment the processes by which this result has been reached. We have
here collected the products of our artistic, scientific and industrial life. The raw materials
of the farm, the vineyard, the mine and the forest have been transformed by the skilled artisan,
the artist and the architect into the finished products before you. By the co-operation of
all these resources, of all these activities, of all these workers, this result has been accomplished.
From the felling of the trees in the forest, the tilling of the soil and the mining of the
ore, through all the steps and processes required to produce from the raw material the complicated
machine or the costly fabric, there must have been co-operation, and all incongruous elements
and resistant forces must have been eliminated or overcome.

"The chief factor, therefore, which has contributed to these results is the co-operation of
all our people. The first law of our civilization is the co-operation of all individuals to
improve the conditions of life. By division of labor each individual is assigned to or takes
his special part in our social organization. This specialization of labor has become most minute.
Not only is this true in scientific and philosophic research, in professional and business
life, but in the simplest and earliest occupations of men, such as the tilling of the soil,
the specialist is found bringing to the aid of his industry expert and scientific knowledge.

"... In the division of labor and the resultant specialization of human activity we have necessarily
different classes of workers, some of whom have adopted the co-operative idea by forming organizations
by which they seek to better their conditions. No doubt each class of workers has its particular
interests which may be legitimately improved by co-operation among its members, and thus far
the labor organization has a lawful purpose, but while standing for its rights it cannot legitimately
deny to any other class its rights, nor should it go to the extent of infringing the personal
and inalienable rights of its members as individuals. On the contrary, it must accord to its
own members and to others the same measure of justice that it demands for itself as an organization.

"In working out this problem there has been much conflict. Indeed, according to human experience,
such conflict could not entirely be avoided, but in the end each class must recognize that
it cannot exist independently of others; it cannot strike down or defeat the rights or interests
of others without injuring itself. Should capital demand more than its due, by that demand
it limits its opportunities, and, correspondingly, the laborer who demands more than his due
thereby takes away from himself the opportunity to labor. No one can escape this law of co-operation.
Self-interest demands that we must observe its just limitations. We must be ready to do our
part and accord to all others the fair opportunity of doing their part. We must co-operate
with and help our colaborer. We should approach the solution of each question which may arise
with a reasonable and, better still, a friendly spirit. He who obstructs the reasonable adjustment
of these questions, who fosters strife by appealing to class prejudice, may justly be regarded
by all as an enemy to the best public interests....

"In conclusion, permit me to advert to the Louisiana Purchase, which we are now celebrating,
and call attention to the importance of that event in securing to our people the fullest benefit
of the co-operative idea. Manifestly, if our Government were restricted to the original territory
of the United States, as defined by the Treaty of 1783, we must have encountered in many ways
the opposition of governments, some of them European, which would have occupied the territory
beyond our original south and west boundaries. Our trade and commerce moving from or to our
original territory would, necessarily, have been largely restricted by hostile foreign powers.
The Louisiana Purchase not only more than doubled our territory by adding a country rich in
material resources, but gave us control of the Mississippi river, and made possible the acquisition
of the Oregon Territory, the Mexican cessions and the annexation of Texas. ...

"Though much has been done towards the development of this imperial domain, yet we may truly
say that we have only seen the beginning of that development. The possibilities for the future
are boundless. With a land of unparalleled resources, occupied by a people combining the best
elements of our modern civilization and governed by laws evolved from the highest and best
progress of the human race, no eye can foresee the goal to which a co-operation of all these
forces must lead."

The Mexican Commissioner, A. R. Nuncio, spoke in behalf of the foreign exhibitors. The concluding
address was made by Hon. William H. Taft, Secretary of War, who attended as the special representative
of the President. At its conclusion the President of the United States, in the White House
at Washington, pressed a key that started the machinery, unfurled the flags, set the cascades
in motion, and thus opened the Exposition.

BENEFICENT RESULTS

To the question "Was the Louisiana Purchase Exposition a success?" the answer must be an unqualified
affirmative. The value of any great exposition cannot be measured in dollars and cents any
more than it can be measured in pounds and ounces. The great Fair at St. Louis was not projected
as a money-making undertaking. It was held to commemorate a great event in American history
and was designed to arouse a popular interest in the story of the acquisition of the Louisiana
Territory and its glorious results; to more closely knit together the peoples of the earth
in good fellowship and brotherly love; to give to all nations an opportunity to demonstrate
to each other their progress in material things; to awaken in the American people a sense of
civic pride and a determined resolution to maintain and advance the prestige which they now
enjoy among the nations of the earth. Having fulfilled all this, who shall say that the Exposition
has been a failure?

FAIR OFFICIALS FROM NEW YORK

The State of New York has every reason to be proud of her connection with the great Fair, not
only in her official participation, which through the generous action and hearty support of
the Executive and the Legislature was on a most liberal and comprehensive scale, but many of
her sons were prominent in its building, in the creation of its artistic effects, and no less
in the administration of its various departments. At the very inception of the work New York
was honored in the appointment of Martin H. Glynn, of Albany, N. Y., as a member of the National
Commission. Mr. Glynn was afterwards elected Vice-Chairman of the Commission and was one of
its most active members. Laurence H. Grahame, of New York city, was Secretary of the National
Commission. His genial personality, his wide acquaintance and his long experience in newspaper
work admirably fitted him for the duties of the position, which he performed with fidelity.
Mrs. Daniel Manning, of Albany, was President of the Board of Lady Managers. The position was
one requiring marked executive ability, dignity and tact. Mrs. Manning performed the arduous
duties falling to her lot with a grace and cordiality which won for her the love and esteem
of the official delegates to the Exposition from throughout the world. She was signally honored
on many occasions and is one of New York's most distinguished daughters. Judge Franklin Ferriss,
the general counsel for the Exposition Company, and one of St. Louis' most eminent lawyers,
went forth from our State many years ago to seek and find his fortune in the West.

CHIEFS OF EXHIBIT DEPARTMENTS

Of the thirteen chiefs of departments in the division of exhibits New York lays claim to six.
The Department of Education and Social Economy, as well as the Department of Congresses, was
under the direction of Dr. Howard J. Rogers, now Assistant Commissioner of Education of the
State of New York, and formerly Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction; also United States
Director of Education and Social Economy at the Paris Exposition in 1900.

Milan H. Hulbert had charge of the great Department of Manufactures and Varied Industries.
Mr. Hulbert is a native of Brooklyn and a graduate of the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. He
was in charge of the Department of Varied Industries for the United States Commission to Paris
in 1900. The Art Department was presided over by Professor Halsey C. Ives, now of St. Louis,
but formerly of New York State. The old school house in which he received the ground work of
his education still stands at Montour Falls, Schuyler county. Professor Ives was also Chief
of Arts at the Columbian Exposition in 1893. The Chief of the Department of Machinery, Thomas
M. Moore, is a native, and has always been a resident, of New York city. He was in charge of
the Departments of Machinery, Transportation, Agricultural Implements, Graphic Arts and Ordnance
at the Pan American Exposition in Buffalo.

Of late years Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, Chief of the Forest, Fish and Game Department, has been
a resident of New York State. In 1895 he became the director of the Aquarium in New York city
and rebuilt that establishment. He was Chief of the Department of Forestry and Fisheries for
the United States at the Paris Exposition in 1900.

The Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, James E. Sullivan, has always been a New Yorker.
He is an acknowledged athletic record authority and editor of the official athletic almanac.
He was in charge of the American contingent that competed in the Olympic games at the Paris
Exposition, and was also director of athletics at the Pan American Exposition.

SCULPTORS

The heroic equestrian statue "The Apotheosis of St. Louis," generally considered one of the
finest works of its kind, which stood at the very gateway to the Fair grounds, symbolizing
the cordial welcome extended by the city to her guests from every part of the world, was the
work of Charles H. Niehaus, of New York city. The sculpture of the Louisiana Purchase monument,
the surmounting figure typifying "Peace" and the base decoration of groups representing scenes
connected with the purchase, was by Karl Bitter, chief of sculpture of the Exposition, another
New Yorker. Just in front of the monument and looking upon the grand basin were four groups
portraying frontier life, entitled "The Buffalo Dance", "A Step to Civilization", "Peril of
the Plains", and "A Cowboy at Rest", all being the work of Solon Borglum, another New Yorker.
The crowning artistic and architectural effects of the whole Fair were embraced in Festival
Hall and the Cascades. These were the work of two New York men, Cass Gilbert and Emanuel S.
Masqueray. Mr. Gilbert was the architect of Festival Hall and Mr. Masqueray designed the Cascades
and the Colonnade of States. Mr. Masqueray had other notable pieces of work in evidence about
the grounds.

The Palace of Manufactures, standing just to the east of the Plaza St. Louis, was the work
of Messrs. Carrere and Hastings, also New Yorkers. It was regarded as one of the most successful
structures upon the grounds from an architect's point of view and it was appropriate that to
New York men should have been intrusted the construction of the building in which exhibits
of manufactures were displayed, in view of the pre-eminence of our State from a manufacturing
and commercial standpoint.

And so throughout all the departments of the great Fair and throughout the season, one constantly
encountered those who by some tie were bound to New York. Many of her sons who had gone forth
in their youth came back and called at the New York State building and recalled some pleasant
incident of the old days or made grateful acknowledgment of some benefit which had come to
them from their native state. One of the most delightful features of all the experiences of
those who had the honor officially to represent the Empire State at St. Louis was the meeting
of the sons and daughters who had long since left home.

CONCLUSION

The gates had scarcely closed for the last time when the work of destruction and demolition
began. All of the beauties of the dream city which for seven months had been the admiration
of thousands and an inspiration to all to do higher and better things, were swept away almost
in a night and soon the whole scene will be restored to a park. To those who had come to love
its majestic structures, its placid waterways, its attractive vistas and its fairy like illumination,
comes a pang of regret tempered with the feeling of gratefulness that it ever existed and that
it was their privilege to witness it secure in the knowledge that it shall always be theirs
to remember and to dream of. Most effectually was the whole story told in an address on Chicago
Day, by Ernest McGaphey, a poet from that city.

"In its truest sense this Exposition is epic and dramatic. The mere prose of it will come to
lie neglected on the dusty shelves of statisticians, but its poetry will be a priceless legacy
to generations that will follow. And thus there is one light only which may not fade from the
windows of Time--one glint to illuminate the flight of the dying years--that gleam which lives
in fancy and in memory.

"And when this vision of magic departs; when the ivory towers have vanished, and the sound
of flowing waters has been stilled, there will exist with us yet the recollection of it all.
And so at the end the most enduring fabric known to man is woven of the warp and woof of dreams.
The canvas of the great painters will crumble, the curves of noble statuary be ground into
dust by Time, and all this pageantry of art and commerce disappear. But memory will keep a
record of these days as a woman will treasure old love letters, and in the last analysis the
height and breadth, the depth and scope of this splendid achievement shall be measured by a dream."

CHAPTER II

The Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission, State of New York

The first steps looking toward the official participation of the State of New York in the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition were taken by the Legislature of 1902, which passed the following act,
receiving executive approval on April 7, 1902:

CHAPTER 421, LAWS OF 1902

An Act to provide for the representation of the state of New York at the Louisiana purchase
exposition at Saint Louis, Missouri, and making an appropriation therefor.

Became a law, April 7, 1902, with the approval of the Governor. The governor is hereby authorized
to appoint twelve commissioners to represent the state of New York at the Louisiana purchase
exposition to be held at Saint Louis, Missouri, beginning on the first day of May, nineteen
hundred and three, and ending on the thirtieth day of November, nineteen hundred and three,
and for the purposes of this act such commissioners shall be known as the "Louisiana purchase
exposition commission." Such commission shall encourage and promote a full and complete exhibit
of the commercial, educational, industrial, artistic and other interests of the state and its
citizens at such exposition, and shall provide, furnish and maintain, during the exposition,
a building or room for a state exhibit and for the official headquarters of the state, and
for the comfort and convenience of its citizens and its exhibitors.

2. The members of the commission shall receive no compensation for their services, but shall
be entitled to the actual necessary expenses incurred while in discharge of duties imposed
upon them by the commission. Such commission may provide a secretary whose compensation, to
be fixed by it, shall be at the rate of not to exceed twenty-five hundred dollars a year for
all services to be performed in carrying out the provisions of this act, and may also provide
such other clerical assistance and office facilities as it deems necessary, but no salaries
or expenses shall be incurred for a longer period than ninety days after the close of the exposition.

3. The sum of one hundred thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby
appropriated out of any moneys in the treasury not otherwise appropriated for the purposes
of this act. Such money shall be paid by the treasurer on the warrant of the comptroller issued
upon a requisition signed by the president and secretary of the commission, accompanied by
an estimate of the expenses for the payment of which the money so drawn is to be applied. Within
ninety days after the close of the exposition, such commission shall make a verified report
to the comptroller of the disbursements made by it, and shall return to the state treasury
the unexpended balance of money drawn in pursuance of this act. No indebtedness nor obligation
shall be incurred under this act in excess of the appropriation herein made.

4. The commission shall, as requested by the governor, from time to time, render to him reports
of its proceedings.

5. This act shall take effect immediately.

THE COMMISSION

Pursuant to the provisions of this act, Governor Odell named as the twelve members of the Commission:
Edward H. Harriman, of New York city; Louis Stern, of New York city; Edward Lyman Bill, of
New York city; William Berri, of Brooklyn; Cyrus E. Jones, of Jamestown; Lewis Nixon, of New
York city; John C. Woodbury, of Rochester; Frank S. McGraw, of Buffalo; John K. Stewart, of
Amsterdam; James H. Callanan, of Schenectady; John Young, of Geneseo; and Mrs. Norman E Mack,
of Buffalo.

A few months after the appointment of the Commission, Cyrus E. Jones, of Jamestown, resigned,
and the Governor named Frederick R. Green, of Fredonia, in his place.

The results accomplished by the Commission as attested by the number of awards received in
all of the exhibit departments; in the beauty and utility of the State building; in the careful
procedure as to the expenditure of State funds, all bear testimony to the wisdom of the Chief
Executive in the appointment of a Commission, all of the members of which were of acknowledged
prominence either in professional, business or social life.

Throughout its entire existence the Commission worked with a singular unanimity and with a
hearty interest but seldom found in commissions of this character. It held twenty-five regular
meetings and two special meetings, the aggregate of attendance at all meetings being two hundred
thirty-one, making an average attendance of eight and fifty-nine hundredths at each meeting.
When it is considered that each member had large personal interests, and that he served the
State absolutely without compensation, only necessary expenses being allowed by statute, and
that a majority of the members of the Commission were obliged to travel from 160 to 450 miles
to attend the meetings, its record for faithfulness to duty as shown by the above figures is
one in which it may take a pardonable pride.

THE ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMISSION

By virtue of being first named by the Governor, Edward H. Harriman, of New York city, became
President of the Commission, which completed its organization as follows: Vice-President, William
Berri; Treasurer, Edward Lyman Bill. Executive Committee: Louis Stern, Chairman; William Berri,
Lewis Nixon, John K. Stewart and James H. Callanan. Auditing Committee: James H. Callanan and
John K. Stewart.

There was but one name presented for Secretary of the Commission, that of Mr. Charles A. Ball,
of Wellsville. He was unanimously elected, with compensation of $2,500 per annum, the appointment
taking effect December 8, 1902. In its choice of this officer the Commission was most fortunate.
Efficient, faithful and courteous and with a wide circle of acquaintances, particularly among
the prominent men of the Empire State, Mr. Ball was peculiarly qualified for the duties of
the position. He was popular with his superiors and his subordinates, and so directed the work
of the several departments within the Commission's jurisdiction as to procure the very best
results.

Anthony Pfau was later appointed bookkeeper and assistant to the Secretary, and in the handling
of a vast amount of detail work displayed commendable skill and patience. Seward H. French,
stenographer to the Secretary, was always at his post of duty and cheerfully and faithfully
served the Commission at all times. Herman Kandt, assistant bookkeeper, completed the office force.

An informal meeting was held in September, 1902, shortly after the names of the Commission
were announced by the Governor. At this meeting an invitation was extended on behalf of the
Louisiana Purchase Exposition Company to attend the ceremonies in connection with the allotment
of sites for the various State buildings. The President appointed Commissioners Stewart, Woodbury
and Callanan a committee to represent the Commission on that occasion, and on behalf of the
State of New York, to accept the site for its building. The ceremonies in connection with this
occasion are described elsewhere. The first formal meeting of the Commission was called on
December 3, 1902, at 120 Broadway, New York city.

At this meeting the Commission determined to maintain offices at 120 Broadway, New York city,
until such time as the New York State building was opened at St. Louis, and for the expedition
of business the following by-laws were provided:

BY-LAWS

First. The officers of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission of the State of New York
shall consist of a President, Vice-President, Treasurer and Secretary.

Second. Regular meetings of the Commission shall be held in the rooms of the Commission in
New York city on the second Wednesday of every month, at two o'clock P. M., and all members
shall be notified by the Secretary one week in advance of such meeting.

Third. Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum at all regular meetings.

Fourth. An Executive Committee of five members, appointed by the Commission, shall choose one
of their number for Chairman, who shall act also as Chairman at the meetings of the Commission
in the absence of the President or Vice-President. The Executive Committee shall meet at least
once a month, and shall report at the regular meetings of the Commission. Three members of
the Executive Committee shall form a quorum for the transaction of business.

Fifth. Any three members of the Commission may call for a special meeting, through the Secretary,
of the entire Commission, at any time, by giving one week's notice.

Sixth. There shall be an Auditing Committee of two, whose duty it shall be to examine and audit
all bills and accounts when properly verified. Such Committee shall report to the Commission
at each meeting the amounts of bills and accounts so audited, together with the total thereof.

Seventh. A Treasurer shall be appointed by the Commission, who shall pay all bills when they
have been properly verified and audited by the Auditing Committee.

Eighth. The Secretary shall prepare and forward to each member of the Commission a copy of
the proceedings of the previous meeting in his regular monthly calls for meetings.

Ninth. The order of business at monthly meetings shall be as follows:

  1. Reading of minutes of previous meeting
  2. Report of Executive Committee
  3. Report of the Treasurer
  4. Report of regular and special committees
  5. Unfinished business
  6. Communications
  7. New business

A STATE BUILDING

These preliminary formalities over, the Commission began in earnest the work of preparation
for the State's participation at St. Louis. Believing that the most conspicuous feature of
the State's participation in the Exposition, especially so far as the impression which would
be made upon visitors was concerned, would be her State building, the Commission gave its first
attention to this feature. Having been assigned such a commanding site, the Commission kept
in mind that it was incumbent upon them to erect upon it a building of appropriate dignity
and dimensions. It soon became evident that, with the appropriation already made, it would
be impossible to erect a suitable building, maintain it and make suitable exhibits in the great
departments of the Fair in which the State of New York stands pre-eminent. Steps were, therefore,
taken to procure an additional appropriation from the Legislature of 1903, the matter being
placed in the hands of the Executive Committee.

THE ARCHITECT

At the April meeting Mr. Clarence Luce, of New York city, was appointed the Commission's architect,
and the plans for a State building presented by him were accepted. On June thirtieth a special
meeting was called for the purpose of considering bids for the erection of the building and
hearing the report of a special committee, consisting of Messrs. Luce and Van Brunt, who had
visited St. Louis to further the interests of the Commission in this matter.

THE CONTRACTORS

Bids were received from several firms of contractors, ranging from $80,000 down to the contract
price of the building, viz., $56,518, at which figure Messrs. Caldwell & Drake, of Columbus,
Ind., contracted to complete the building in accordance with plans and specifications of the
architect. The construction work was immediately inaugurated and was pushed forward so rapidly
that the December meeting of the Commission, which was held on the eighteenth of that month,
took place in the New York State building on the World's Fair grounds. After inspecting the
building and carefully noting the progress which was being made, the Commission adjourned to
meet at the Planters Hotel at seven o'clock in the evening. Through the courtesy of Honorable
George J. Kobusch, president of the St. Louis Car Company, the private car "Electra" conveyed
the members of the Commission to the grounds and return.

EMBELLISHMENT AND FURNISHING

An offer from the Aeolian Company, of New York city, to install, at its own expense, a pipe
organ in the building was accepted, and an appropriation of $3,500 was made for an ornamental
case to contain the organ which would be a distinctive addition to the decoration of the entrance
hallway. In the meantime the matter of furnishing the State building had been in the hands
of a Furniture Committee, who had made an exhaustive investigation upon the subject. In March
a contract was made with Herter Brothers, of New York city, for furnishing the State building,
in accordance with specifications prepared by the Commission, for $18,000.

THE COMPLETION OF THE BUILDING

By dint of prodigous effort the building was completed, entirely furnished and ready for the
reception of guests on the opening day of the Exposition, at which time the offices of the
Commission were opened in the State building, the New York offices remaining open throughout
the summer in charge of Harry A. Sylvester.

The architect was commended for the prompt completion of his work in the following resolutions:

"*Whereas*, in originality of design, perfection in detail and attractiveness in equipment,
the New York State building at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition is thoroughly representative
of the dignity and position of the Empire State,

"Resolved, therefore, that the thanks of this Commission be tendered to the architect, Mr.
Clarence Luce, as a token of our appreciation of his skill, talent and artistic tastes in creating
a structure which meets with the warmest approval of this Commission, and which is a fitting
home for New York at the World's Fair of 1904.

"Resolved, that the secretary be instructed to forward to Mr. Luce a copy of these resolutions,
suitably engrossed."

Throughout the entire Exposition period there were but very few days that from one to three
Commissioners were not present at the State building.

By resolution the Commission determined that the lady Commissioner and the wives of Commissioners,
assisted by the official hostess, should be hostesses of the State building during the period
of the Exposition, and in the absence of those, that the official hostess should act in that
capacity, and it was further determined that any Commissioner or a majority of the Commissioners
present at the New York State building at any time should constitute a house committee, and
have full charge of the State building.

PLANS FOR PARTICIPATION

During the earlier meetings of the Commission they were waited upon by representatives of the
Exposition Company, and by committees or representatives of organizations within the State
either offering to co-operate with the Commission in the preparation of exhibit material or
requesting appropriations from the Commission's funds to enable them to prepare exhibits.

In February, 1903, Honorable George L. Parker, a representative of President Francis, addressed
the Commission, urging them to see that New York State was properly represented. He, stated
that the people of the West expected great things of New York State; that the city of St. Louis
and the territory the acquisition of which was commemorated by the Fair, spent large sums of
money in the city of New York alone, and for that reason it was hoped and expected that New
York should lead the other States of the Union.

Later in the year, Dr. J. A. Holmes, chief of the Department of Mines and Metallurgy, appeared
before the Commission by invitation and made some interesting remarks concerning the scientific
exhibit, which he felt it incumbent upon the State to make. He stated that there was no geological
survey, either national or State, as valuable as that of the State of New York, and strongly
advocated that a model oil well derrick be erected.

The Legislature of 1903 passed two acts which affected either directly or indirectly the work
of the Commission. The first act provided $50,000 for participation in the dedication ceremonies
of the Exposition and is as follows:

CHAPTER 189, LAWS OF 1903

An Act making an appropriation for the due and appropriate participation by the state in the
ceremonies attending the dedication of buildings of the Louisiana purchase exposition.

Became a law, April 22, 1903, with the approval of the Governor.

Sec. 2. This act shall take effect immediately.

The second act amended the original act providing for State representation, and increased the
Commission's appropriation by $200,000, making $300,000 in all. Sections one, two and three,
of chapter four hundred and twenty-one, of the laws of nineteen hundred and two, are hereby
amended so as to read as follows:

Section 1. Such commission shall have power and authority, in their discretion, to sell or
otherwise dispose of any building, furniture, fixtures or other property which shall have been
acquired by it pursuant to the provisions of this section.

*Sec.*3. No member of such commission, nor such officer, shall be personally liable for any
debt or obligation created or incurred by him as such commissioner, or such officer, or by
such commission, or any such officer.

*Sec.*2. This act shall take effect immediately.

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

The title of the Secretary was thereupon changed to that of Secretary and Chief Executive Officer,
and he was clothed with all the authority and duties pertaining to the latter position, his
salary being increased to $4,000 per annum. Later his duties were further prescribed by the
following resolution:

"Resolved, that the Chief Executive Officer shall exercise such direction and management of
the office as shall make effective the various agencies employed. He shall nominate to the
Commission all clerks and employees in all the departments. He shall fix and establish all
salaries of officers, clerks and employees, subject to the approval of the Commission. He shall
in like manner have power to suspend, without pay, for cause, upon charges made in writing
and filed in the office of the Commission, with such suspended officers, clerks or employees,
and with the Chairman of the Executive Committee, any and all officers, clerks and employees
of the Commission. Discharges or removals of such officers clerks or employees must be approved
by the Executive Committee of the Commission. He shall have power to visit and examine the
work and management of the several departments created by the Commission. It shall be his duty
to make regular monthly reports to the Commission, and at such other times as the Commission
may be in session or request such report."

CHIEFS OF DEPARTMENTS

At the meeting of the Commission held in June, 1903, the following chiefs of departments were
appointed:

Charles H. Vick, of Rochester, Superintendent of Horticulture and Floriculture, to take effect
July 1, 1903, at a salary of $2,000 per annum.

J. H. Durkee, of Florida, Superintendent of Agriculture, to take effect July 1, 1903, at a
salary of $2,000 per annum.

DeLancey M. Ellis, of Rochester, Director of Education, to take effect June 15, 1903, at a
salary of $2,000 per annum.

Later Mr. Ellis's title was changed to Director of Education and Social Economy, and he was
placed in charge of the exhibits in the latter department in addition to those of the Department
of Education.

APPROPRIATIONS FOR EXHIBITS

The following appropriations were made for exhibits:

Horticulture and Floriculture                         $20,000
Agriculture, including live stock and dairy products   25,000
Education                                              20,000
Social Economy:
  State Commission in Lunacy          $1,800
  State Board of Charities             1,200
  State Department of Prisons          2,000
  State Department of Labor            1,000
  Craig Colony for Epileptics            500
  General expenses                     1,000
                                     -------           $7,500
Forest, Fish and Game                                  18,000
Scientific                                              7,500
Fine Arts                                              10,000
                                                      -------
  Total                                              $108,000

In the departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, and Education and Social Economy the work
was placed in charge of the chiefs above named. The Scientific exhibit was placed in charge
of the Director of the State Museum. All of the above exhibits were subject to the supervisory
control of the chief executive officer. The Forest, Fish and Game exhibit was placed under
direct control of the chief executive officer, valuable assistance being rendered, however,
by the Forest, Fish and Game Commission.

The Fine Arts exhibit was provided for in the following resolution:

"Resolved, that Mr. W. H. Low, of the Society of American Artists; Mr. H. W. Watrous, of the
National Academy of Design; Mr. J. Carroll Beckwith, a member of the Art Commission of the
city of New York; Mr. Louis Loeb, of the Society of Illustrators; Mr. Frank C. Jones, delegate
to the Fine Arts Federation from the National Academy of Design; Mr. Grosvenor Atterbury, of
the Architectural League of New York, and Mr. Herbert Adams, of the National Sculpture Society,
be named as an executive committee on art for the State of New York, whose duty it shall be
to aid the chief executive officer of this Commission to develop the New York State art exhibit
at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, said executive committee to serve without expense to
this Commission."

By means of the various agencies provided for the preparation of exhibits, the work was pushed
forward as rapidly as possible, the Commission keeping in touch with its progress through monthly
reports filed with the chief executive officer by the heads of various departments.

ASSISTANCE BY EXPOSITION OFFICERS

By the time the Commission held its meeting in St. Louis in December space had been assigned
for most all of the State exhibits. There was an evident disposition on the part of the Exposition
Company to do all in their power to assist the State of New York in making its participation
an unqualified success. In appreciation of this attitude the following resolution was passed
at the meeting held in the city of St. Louis in December:

"Resolved, that the members of the New York Commission desire to express to the president of
the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Company and the heads of the various departments with whom
they have been brought in personal contact, their appreciation of the delightful courtesy extended
them. It is obvious that there is a desire on the part of the Exposition authorities to facilitate
the departmental work of New York in connection with the Exposition. We cannot fail to express
our admiration of the gigantic task which the officers of this great international fair have
carried to such a successful culmination. In the entire history of expositions, there has been
evidenced no greater progress, and such work could not have been accomplished save through
the most prodigious efforts on the part of the projectors of this vast enterprise. When St.
Louis opens her exposition gates next year, it will be to invite the world to witness the greatest
exposition in all history. And be it further

"Resolved, that the secretary be instructed to forward a copy of this resolution to President
Francis and the heads of the various departments of the Exposition."

NEW YORK DAY

The Commission took considerable care in the choosing of a day to be known as "New York Day."
It was considered important that a date should be named upon which it would be possible for
the Governor to be present. Moreover it seemed essential that no date during the heat of the
summer should be designated, as but few New Yorkers would be apt to be present at St. Louis
at that time, and, therefore, after mature consideration, October fourth was designated as
New York State Day.

[Became a law May 9, 1904, with the approval of the Governor.

*Sec.*2. This act shall take effect immediately.

This made possible the elaboration of some of the plans which the Commission had in mind.

HISTORY OF THE EXPOSITION PERIOD

The history of the Exposition period will be found in other chapters of this report. A description
of the State building, detailed accounts of the dedicatory exercises and the exercises upon
State Day, as well as other important functions, are given. The exhibits in the various departments
are fully described, and the results of the inspection by the juries are given.

Throughout the entire life of the Commission death did not enter its ranks, nor the ranks of
its attaches, nor did any untoward incident arise, although early in the morning of November
twenty-first a catastrophe was narrowly averted. In the middle of the night a fire was found
smouldering in the basement of the building, which, through the prompt action of the watchman
on duty, was extinguished without doing extensive damage. Many were asleep in the building
at the time, and but for the presence of mind and courage of those on duty the consequences
might have been too fearful to contemplate.

DISPOSITION OF EXHIBITS

At a meeting of the Commission, held just before the close of the Exposition, the following
resolution was passed:

"Resolved, that the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission of the State of New York hereby
authorizes the Secretary and Chief Executive Officer, Charles A. Ball, to turn over to the
Lewis and Clark Exposition Commission of the State of New York any of the exhibits, or such
part thereof as the latter may desire in the various exhibit departments working under the
auspices of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission of the State of New York for the use
of said Lewis and Clark Exposition Commission, State of New York, with the proviso that in
the case of individual exhibits forming a part of said exhibits the Lewis and Clark Exposition
Commission, State of New York, must get the consent of the owners of said exhibits and relieve
the Commission of all responsibility relating thereto and return said individual exhibits to
their owners at the close of the Lewis and Clark Exposition, it being understood, however,
that said Lewis and Clark Exposition Commission must take possession of these exhibits not
later than December 15, 1904."

Upon requisition from the latter Commission the Secretary and Chief Executive Officer turned
over to the Lewis and Clark Exposition Commission the following material: The complete exhibit
of the State in the departments of Education and Social Economy; the complete exhibit in the
Department of Forestry, Fish and Game, with the exception of the Log-cabin and the Forest Nursery
and a portion of the State exhibits in the departments of Mines and Metallurgy and Agriculture.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT TO PRESIDENT FRANCIS AND OTHERS

President Francis and the Exposition officials generally throughout the entire Exposition period
extended to the Commission every courtesy and evinced a hearty interest in the work of New
York, endeavoring to further the interests of the Commission in every possible direction. Desiring
to express in suitable terms its appreciation of these courtesies the Commission also passed
the following resolutions at its meeting held at the close of the Exposition:

"WHEREAS, the Empire State is about to close its official connection with this, the greatest
of World's Fairs; and,

"WHEREAS, the members of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission of the State of New York,
appointed by the Governor, desire to express to the officials of the Fair their sincere appreciation
of the hearty co-operation which they have rendered the members of this Commission, in every
way facilitating the work of New York in each department of State representation; and,

"WHEREAS, in all of the Commission's relations with the officers of the Exposition, not only
has every courtesy been shown the Commission, but there has been a friendly desire to promote
their interests; therefore, be it

"Resolved, that the cordial thanks of this Commission be extended to the President of the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition Commission, Honorable David R. Francis; to the Secretary, Honorable Walter
B. Stevens; to the Director of Exhibits, Honorable Frederick J.V. Skiff; to the Director of
Works, Honorable Isaac S. Taylor, and to the chiefs of each exhibit department of the Exposition,
with whom the Commission or its representatives have been brought in contact; be it further

"Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon the permanent records of the Commission and
a copy of the same forwarded to each of the above named Exposition officials."

COMMENDATION FOR STAFF

With the exception of closing up its affairs, this marked the end of the Commission's work
and before adjournment the following resolutions commending the efficiency and faithfulness
of its employees were spread upon the minutes, and a copy was sent to each attache:

"WHEREAS, this Commission is about to close its work, and for this reason must necessarily
very soon dispense with the services of the appointees who have served under it since its organization
and during the life of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, it is eminently fitting that we make
record of the faithfulness and loyalty with which said appointees of every character whatsoever
have discharged their respective duties; therefore, be it

"Resolved, that we take pleasure in certifying to the efficient manner in which our Secretary
and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Charles A. Ball, has discharged the important duties attached
to his position. From the very inception of the work upon which this Commission entered, Mr.
Ball has proven to be most loyal and faithful, and has ever been ready and willing to carry
out the instructions of this Commission. His wide acquaintance with the people of New York
State, and especially with her official representatives, has been of inestimable service to
this Commission, not only while the various exhibits were being developed, but also during
the Exposition period itself. That Mr. Ball has popularized the Commission's work at St. Louis
is attested by the universal commendation which he has received from New York people who have
come in contact with him during their visits to the Exposition and to the New York State building.
Mr. Ball has shown himself to be most capable in directing the various appointees at the State
building and in the several exhibit departments in the discharge of their various duties, and
has not only carried an this work to the best interests of the State, but in such a manner
as to greatly endear himself to this Commission and to all of its employees as well. His foresight
in providing for the necessary vigilance during the hours of the night in the protection of
the lives of those in the State building, once seriously jeopardized by fire, as well as the
property of the State from loss by fire, is especially entitled to the sincere thanks and gratitude
of this Commission;

"Resolved, that in Chief Clerk Anthony Pfau, Stenographer Seward H. French, Clerks Herman W.
Kandt and Harry A. Sylvester, the experience of this Commission has demonstrated that it made
most worthy selections. They have been faithful assistants to Mr. Ball in the discharge of
his duties and this Commission gladly records its commendation of the ability with which they
have discharged their duties;

"Resolved, that we extend to the Honorable Frank J. Le Fevre, the Superintendent, and Mr. George
B. Cowper, the Assistant Superintendent, our sincere appreciation for the most praiseworthy
manner in which they have discharged the difficult duties falling to them, and our very pleasant
relations with them shall be ever held in grateful remembrance;

"Resolved, that we have been especially gratified with the highly satisfactory manner in which
Mrs. Dore Lyon, the hostess, Mrs. F. B. Applebee, the assistant hostess, and Miss Laura C.
MacMartin, the matron at the State building, have acquitted themselves of the duties assigned
to them. We especially accord them our highest appreciation;

"Resolved, that this Commission especially commends the faithful and efficient services rendered
by Mr. DeLancey M. Ellis, Mr. J. H. Durkee, Mr. Charles H. Vick, Mr. A. B. Strough, Mr. H.
H. Hindshaw, Mr. Harry Watrous and Mr. Charles M. Kurtz, and all their assistants in the various
exhibit departments, in which our State has signalized her pre-eminence as shown by the large
number of awards received. These gentlemen have always proven loyal to the interests of the
State and to this Commission and they are entitled to the highest regard by this Commission;

"Resolved, that for all the subordinate employees of this Commission throughout the State building
and all the departments working under this Commission, this Commission desires at this time
to make complete record of their efficient loyalty and faithfulness in the discharge of the
various duties assigned to them, and we especially attest our full appreciation for their efforts
at all times to make the work of this Commission in enhancing the interests of the State a
complete success;

"Resolved, that we cannot forget the efficiency of Mr. Hugh J. Baldwin, who, we believe, by
his watchfulness at the time of the fire in the State building, saved the lives of many of
the occupants of the building as well as the property of the State; for Mr. Hugh W. Bingham,
also on duty during that night, who so efficiently aided Mr. Baldwin in protecting life and
property, we here record our sincerest gratitude; and be it further

"Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon the minutes of the proceedings of this Commission
and the Secretary is hereby authorized to transmit a copy of these resolutions to each of the
employees of this Commission."

CHAPTER III

New York State Building

The New York State building was admirably located upon one of the most attractive sites within
the gift of the Exposition Company, to whom the Commission, in behalf of the State of New York,
desire to make grateful acknowledgment.

THE SITE

The building stood on the brow of a hill, the land sloping off gently to the north, and faced
upon a broad plaza, through which ran one of the most frequented highways within the grounds,
known as Commonwealth avenue. For its neighbors were the buildings of Kansas, Iowa, Massachusetts,
Ohio, Wisconsin and Oklahoma, while westward, at the foot of the hill, was located the great
cage erected by the United States government, which held the exhibit of live birds from the
Smithsonian Institute.

To no state, with the possible exception of Missouri, the home state, was so large a site assigned
as to New York. Its extent, the undulating character of the grounds, and the presence of many
beautiful, stately trees, afforded countless opportunities for landscape effects. From the
opening day the grounds presented a charming appearance, the well-kept lawns giving place here
and there to large beds of nasturtiums, poppies, cannae, and rhododendrons, while at the lowest
point on the grounds, near the northeast corner, was located a lily pond. It was filled with
the choicest aquatic plants of every variety, which were furnished through the courtesy of
Shaw's Gardens and the Missouri Botanical Society. During the season many beautiful bouquets
of varicolored blossoms were gathered and its surface was almost entirely covered by odd shaped
leaves from which peeped here and there the buds of pond lilies.

TRANSFER OF SITE TO THE STATE

The site was formally turned over to the Commission on October 1, 1902, and was received by
a committee appointed by the president, consisting, of Commissioners John K. Stewart, John
C. Woodbury and James H. Callanan. The ceremony took place in the presence of Honorable David
R. Francis, president of the Exposition Company, the Director of Works, and other Exposition
officials, the committee of the New York State Commission and invited guests.

The exercises were brief but impressive. President Francis spoke as follows:

REMARKS OF PRESIDENT FRANCIS

"A universal exposition, either in the United States or elsewhere, would be incomplete if the
Empire State of the American Union were not represented. This site has been selected for the
great State of New York, and upon this location we trust there will be erected a structure
which will be in keeping with the glorious record New York and her sons have made from the
beginning of this country. New York needs no encomium from me, none in fact from her sons.
She speaks for herself. The Director of Works will present to the chairman of the New York
Commission the site for the building of the State of New York."

Honorable Isaac S. Taylor, Director of Works, then formally presented the site to the Commission,
handing to Commissioner John K. Stewart a handsome banner of purple silk, upon which was painted
the coat of arms of the State of New York. Driving the staff in the ground, thus marking the
site, Commissioner Stewart said:

REMARKS OF COMMISSIONER STEWART

"Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Commission: In behalf of New York State I receive this
emblem. We shall erect here a building suitable for the great Empire State of New York. I wish
to introduce to you Honorable James H. Callanan, of Schenectady, who will respond in behalf
of the Commission."

Commissioner James H. Callanan then made the following address:

ADDRESS OF COMMISSIONER CALLANAN

"In behalf of the Commission representing the Commonwealth of New York, I take pleasure in
accepting the site allotted for the Empire State's building at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.
With this acceptance I beg you to receive the assurance from our Commission that New York will
do her share to make the Exposition an unquestioned success. Upon this site we expect to erect
a handsome and commodious structure where New Yorkers may meet one another during the Exposition,
and where they may welcome their fellow citizens from every section of our common country.
New York is also desirous of having exhibited here upon these spacious grounds the evidences
of her prestige in the domain of manufacture, of commerce, of agriculture, of science and of art.

"The American people are progressive. The indomitable courage and ambition of the American
knows no cessation of effort, no lagging behind. The expositions held in our country have celebrated
great epochs of our advancement, and they will be pointed out to future generations as evidences
of the onward march of a people unparalleled in the history of the human race.

"To these great achievements of a mighty people it is impossible to estimate the share contributed
by the sturdy pioneers and their descendants of this vast tract of country, the cession of
which more than doubled the area of our country a century ago. What great states have been
carved out of this territory! What wonderful wealth of resources have been brought forth here!
What a splendid citizenship has been established in this vast region! New York rejoices with
you in the giant strides made by this newer section of our country.

"It certainly is most appropriate at this time when the republic is reaching out as a world
power that we should celebrate the anniversary of the first great chapter in the history of
our national expansion. Time has proven that Jefferson and his compeers built greater than
they knew, for by that acquisition of territory there was developed a spirit of national progress
that did not cease even when we first learned to know no superior among the nations of the earth.

"Representatives of half a dozen different nations met in the smoking room of an ocean liner
sometime ago. It was suggested that each nation be toasted. An Englishman paid a glowing tribute
to his country. A Frenchman lauded his nation and a Russian eulogized the land of the Czar.
Then an American arose and said: 'Here is to the United States, bounded on the north by the
North Pole, on the east by the rising sun, on the south by the South Pole, and on the west
by the setting sun.' As he finished another American present requested that he be permitted
to attempt an improvement on the toast given by his countryman, which request was granted.
He then toasted the United States in this fashion: 'Here's to the United States, bounded on
the north by the Aurora Borealis, on the east by infinite chaos, on the south by the procession
of the Equinoxes, and on the west by the day of judgment.' This indeed is extravagant language,
but that fellow possessed the American spirit which recognizes no limit to the possibilities
of our future.

"I recognize that this is no occasion for state boasting. Each state, territory and American
possession is unselfishly interested in the success of this Exposition. However, in connection
with what New York is expected to do for this grand enterprise, you will pardon, I know, this
very brief reference I make to New York's supremacy in population, in wealth, in manufactures
and in commerce. I think it less than twenty years ago that New York was ahead in agricultural
productions, too. Agricultural supremacy has been tending westward for nearly a half century,
however, and we cheerfully surrender to your broad prairies. Iowa, Ohio and Illinois now outrank
us in farm industry, the first once a part of the Louisiana tract and the other two cut from
the Northwest Territory.

"An Eastern farmer on his first visit to the west asked his Western brother how it was that
'he could plow such straight furrows over such enormous fields.' 'That's easy,' said the native,
'we follow the parallels of latitude and the meridians of longitude.' That reply was significant.
It demonstrates quite fully where agriculture is king in the United States.

"The end of the great strides that you are making here in the west is not in sight. Some day
your population will be as dense as ours. Slowly, but steadily, the center of population is
creeping westward and by another decade or so it will most likely cross the great Father of
Waters and move across the land which Jefferson's genius gave to the republic. New York will
be more powerful by reason of your greatness. Your increasing productions will contribute to
our commercial prestige more and more as the years roll on to make our metropolis continue
to be the greatest seaport on this continent for all time.

"We share your glory in more ways than this, too. Many of the sturdy men and women who have
settled within the confines of this great region were native New Yorkers. Our blood has been
mingled with yours and our children are first cousins of yours. New York gave to you because
she could spare and you accepted of us because you wanted the best you could find.

"New York then bids the people of this section All Hail! We are with you heart and soul to
make the Exposition a magnificent success. New York has never failed when a patriotic effort
was demanded and as ever before she will now respond with enthusiasm and will do everything
possible here to sustain her imperial position.

"Let us hope that the Exposition will accomplish all that is intended.

At the conclusion of Commissioner Callanan's remarks the assemblage dispersed.

DEDICATION OF THE SITE

The site was formally dedicated at the time of the formal dedication ceremonies of the Exposition,
the special ceremonies being held directly after the general exercises held in observance of
State Day, on May 2, 1903. There were present Governor and Mrs. Odell, the Governor's staff,
a joint committee of the Legislature, Exposition officials, members of the State Commission
and invited guests.

Having assembled upon the site, William Berri, Vice-President of the Commission, addressed
Governor Odell as follows:

ADDRESS BY VICE-PRESIDENT BERRI

"Governor Odell: It gives the New York State Commission to the Louisiana Purchase Exposition
very great pleasure to have you present here to-day to participate in the simple exercises
authorized by the Commission connected with the beginning of the work of construction of the
New York State building which is to be erected upon this site. A more desirable grant of space
on the Plateau of States could not have been made for us by the management of this Exposition,
and we hope to place here a building that will add dignity to the location and worthily represent
the State of New York in architectural beauty and practical usefulness. Your commission has
been fortunate in securing for the architect Mr. Clarence Luce, and the plans and drawings
which we have decided upon from his hand give promise of a structure that the State we represent
will be proud of, and we shall also endeavor to so furnish it and utilize its facilities as
to make it a serviceable and attractive addition to the large number of State buildings that
are to be erected in its vicinity.

"Everything has to have a beginning, so we are here to-day to begin our work of actual construction,
and it is specially fitting that we should have present the Governor of New York to assist
in the ceremonies attendant therewith, for he has always heartily supported the project of
the St. Louis Exposition and has furthered its interests on every occasion. Therefore, on behalf
of the New York State Commission, I ask you, Governor Odell, to honor the great World's Fair
of 1904 by performing the first actual work upon the structure we propose to erect by turning
the first spadeful of earth for the State of New York and the New York State building."

The Governor responded briefly, commending the Commission for its work, predicting wonderful
benefits to accrue from the Exposition and prophesying that New York would be at the forefront
in all of its departments, after which he lifted the first spadeful of earth upon the site.
He then handed the spade to Mrs. Odell, who lifted another sod; after which various ladies
in the party performed the same act; at the conclusion of which the assemblage adjourned.

OPENING OF THE BUILDING

The building of the State of New York was the only building on the Terrace of States entirely
ready for the reception of guests on the opening day of the Exposition. It was a structure
thoroughly in keeping with the dignity and prestige of the great Empire State. Of marked simplicity
in design, there was in its every line and appointment evidence of the utmost refinement and
culture.

The building was planned primarily for the comfort, accommodation and convenience of visitors
from the Empire State, for the holding of such functions as the Commission were required to
give in the name of the State, and for the meetings of any associations or delegations from
New York attending the Exposition. It contained no exhibits of any kind, all of the exhibits
being placed in the main exhibit palaces under the proper subdivision of the official classification.

THE ARCHITECTURE

The building was pure Italian in style, surmounted by a low dome and surrounded by verandas
and terraces. Through the main approach one entered a large hall sixty feet square, running
the full height of the building, arched and domed in the Roman manner, with galleries around
the second story. From this hall ascended the grand staircase, both to the left and to the right.

MURAL DECORATIONS

Under the four arches were handsome mural paintings, the work of Florian Peixotto, illustrating
"De Soto Discovering the Mississippi," "The French and Indian Occupation," "New York in 1803,"
and "New York in 1903." The four pendentives which supported the dome contained emblematic
pictures representing the four States most benefited by the Louisiana Purchase, Missouri, Louisiana,
Mississippi and Alabama. The lower hall was of the simple Doric order, and the staircase was
augmented by two memorial columns surrounded by dancing groups beautifully modeled, each column
surmounted by a light. To the right of the entrance hall, and separated from it only by huge
pillars, was a large assembly hall fifty by sixty feet, which was used for receptions, dinners
and other State functions given by the Commission. This hall was most richly decorated in old
golds, Antwerp blues and siennas and, with its crystal chandeliers and barrel vaulted ceiling
running up through the second story, was one of the most attractive features of the building.
Beyond the grand hall were small dining rooms and serving rooms connected with the culinary
department. To the left of the entrance hall were waiting rooms, writing rooms and retiring
rooms for the accommodation of guests, while at the extreme south end of the building were
two reading rooms, in which were on file the various daily papers of the State. But seldom
were the reading rooms without visitors eagerly familiarizing themselves with what had happened
at home subsequent to their departure. Also, on the first floor were coat rooms, a bureau of
information, postoffice, telegraph and telephone offices.

OFFICES OF THE COMMISSION

The second floor contained the offices of the Commission, which were occupied by the Secretary
and the clerical force, and also eight suites of rooms, consisting of parlor, bedroom and bath,
for the accommodation of the members of the Commission and their guests. One of these suites,
more handsomely furnished than the others, was called the "Governor's suite," and was reserved
for his exclusive use. While not originally contemplated, the third floor in both the north
and south ends of the building were finished and partitioned into rooms for the use of the
attaches of the Commission. This increased the capacity of the building by eight rooms.

THE SCULPTURE

Eminent sculptors were employed to prepare the statuary for the building which was generally
conceded to be as fine as any upon the Exposition grounds, being most admirably adapted to
the building as to scale. There were two massive quadrigae flanking the dome typifying the
"Progress of Art" and the "Progress of Commerce," which were the work of Phillip Martiny, to
whom was also intrusted the work of preparing the elaborate group, crowding the main entrance
to Festival Hall and entitled "Apollo and the Muses." About the huge columns flanking the steps
which formed the approach and again about the columns at the foot of the grand staircase were
dancing groups most gracefully modeled by Oscar L. Lenz. The same sculptor was also responsible
for the figure of "Greeting" which stood in the lower niche at the north end of the building.
The coat of arms of the State which appeared frequently in the scheme of decoration was by
Allen G. Newman. The work of reproduction in staff of the models prepared by the artists was
performed by Messrs. Barth & Staak.

THE LIGHTING

The lighting of the building throughout was by electricity, and was particularly effective
in the main entrance hallway, in that the lights, for the most part, were concealed behind
cornices giving a very soft effect, and displaying to the best advantage the mural paintings.
Throughout the building electroliers of special design were used. In the main hallway they
took the form of quaint Florentine lanterns which were particularly rich in modeling and were
an important factor in the scheme of decoration.

THE FURNISHINGS

The furnishings were most appropriate and harmonious throughout, much of the furniture having
been especially built for the place in which it was to stand. In the main hallway stood massive
Florentine chairs and settees, with high backs, upholstered in mottled embossed leather, each
bearing the coat of arms of the State. The waiting and writing rooms were appointed and finished
in the same simple design which prevailed in the main hallway, light green being the dominating
color, the furniture being of mahogany, upholstered in Bedford cord. The effect was most restful
to the tired visitor who entered the rooms upon a warm summer day, and their popularity was
attested by the number of Exposition visitors, both from New York and elsewhere, who sought
their quiet and refreshing atmosphere to recover from the fatigue of Exposition sight seeing.

THE ARCHITECT

The entire work of designing the building, sculpture, decorations and furniture was intrusted
to Mr. Clarence Luce, of 246 Fourth avenue, New York city. Thoroughly familiar with the traditions
of the great Empire State, Mr. Luce made the work committed to him a matter of State as well
as professional pride, and the result of his long experience, coupled with his artistic temperament
and sound judgment, was a building to which each New Yorker pointed with the utmost pride and
which each stranger praised unstintingly. The prompt completion of the work so thoroughly and
satisfactorily done was a source of gratification to the Commission, who at the first meeting
held in the building passed commendatory resolutions concerning Mr. Luce.

There were State buildings which represented an outlay of considerably more money, but none
which typified the commonwealth for which it stood more thoroughly than did the New York State
building.

THE RESTAURANT

A pleasant feature was a private restaurant, conducted by Messrs. Bayno & Pindat, of New York
city, the former being the inventor of an electric range which was used in the preparation
of food. The kitchen and commissary department was in the basement at the north end of the
building. The privileges of the restaurant were by card only, and were extended to New Yorkers,
Exposition officials and prominent Exposition visitors. The cuisine was most excellent, and
throughout the season appetizing meals were served on the spacious verandas at the north end
of the building, over which canopies had been erected, the illumination being furnished in
the evening by electric lights, contained in Japanese lanterns. No restaurant upon the grounds
enjoyed a greater popularity among those who were privileged to use it than did that of the
New York State building.

THE ORGAN

To the Aeolian Company, of New York city, the Commission is indebted for one of the features
of the building. This company placed a magnificent pipe organ in the east balcony of the rotunda,
and in the gallery north of the grand hall, nearly 100 feet away, was installed an echo organ,
while a set of cathedral chimes sounded softly from still another distant part of the building.
All three instruments were under control of the organist at the console located upon the main
floor of the entrance hall, and could be played either by hand or by music rolls manufactured
by the Aeolian Company. The organ was equipped with an electric keyboard which permitted the
playing of all three instruments or any single one, as the operator desired. The main instrument
was contained in an artistic case, which, with its decorative ornament, was built by Charles
and Jacob Blum, of New York city, and was an important enrichment of the hall.

Mr. S. H. Grover, a representative of the company, was in attendance throughout the summer
and gave a recital each day at three o'clock in the afternoon. These recitals soon came to
be a feature of the Exposition, and were largely attended by music lovers.

The program played on New York State day is given below, and is a fair specimen of the programs
rendered throughout the season.

  Overture, "Oberon"                              Von Weber
  Serenade                                        Schubert
  The Nightingale                                 Delibes
  Overture, "Stradella"                           Flotow
  Berceuse, "Jocelyn"                             Godard
  Selections, No. 11, "La Boheme"                 Puccini
  Am Meer                                         Schubert
  Introduction, Act III, "Lohengrin"              Wagner

THE PIANO

The Commission also acknowledges the courtesy of Steinway & Co. in placing in the State building
one of the finest instruments ever turned out by this famous firm of piano builders. Its purity
of tone and singing qualities were remarkable, and during the season several recitals were
given upon it by eminent musicians. The piano was appropriately named "The Wave," illustrating
as it did the wonderful waterways of the Empire State. The case was made of white hard maple,
admirably adapted for fine carving. Some distance from the edge of the top the smooth surface
commenced to take the undulations of the surface of water, gradually increasing in volume until
the edge was reached, where the waves seemed to flow over in an irregular line down the sides,
here and there forming panels. The three supports were composed of female figures sculptured
in wood; one supported by a dolphin suggested the mythical origin of the harp, another was
poised upon a dolphin's back, and the third was a water nymph nestled among the rocks and spray.
The music desk contained a picture of sunrise on Lake Erie. All of the carving was colored
with translucent greens and blues enhancing the graceful undulations and wave movements. The
panels were all designed to illustrate some of the most important views of the waterways of
New York State. The first represented New York harbor, the next East river spanned by Brooklyn
bridge, another the Hudson, with its palisades. The panel over the rear support was a view
of Albany, showing the Capitol on the hill at sunset; another showed Cohoes Falls and the Erie
canal; the next contained a picture of Little Falls; the last being a picture of Buffalo harbor.
On the top, as a fitting finale, was a large picture representing the American Falls at Niagara.
Underneath the front half of the top was painted the coat of arms of the State.

THE STAFF

The State building was at all times in charge of a competent and obliging staff, which always
stood ready to minister to the comfort and pleasure of the guests of the Empire State. Honorable
Frank J. LeFevre, of New Paltz, was Superintendent. He performed the arduous duties of directing
the actions of the force and attending to a multitude of details with cheerfulness and efficiency.
He was ably assisted by George E. Cowper, of Olean, the Assistant Superintendent.

The social functions given in the name of the State Commission were directed by Mrs. Norman
E. Mack, the lady member of the Commission, whenever she was present. In her absence the social
duties fell upon Mrs. Dore Lyon, who invariably extended the State's hospitality with grace
and tact. The assistant hostess, Mrs. F. P. Applebee, won many friends in the course of the
season through her courteous treatment toward all guests. The comfort of the Commission and
their house guests was admirably provided for by Miss Laura MacMartin, the matron.

Acknowledgment is also due to those who faithfully served the Commission in the State building
in various capacities throughout the Exposition period.

CHAPTER IV

Functions Held at the New York State Building

The State building was generally recognized as the social center of the Exposition. Many functions
were given throughout the season by the Commission in the name of the State, and the building
was constantly in demand for private entertainments. The use of the building was freely granted
by the Commission so long as the date did not conflict with that of an official function. To
enumerate all of the social events taking place in the State building is not within the province
of this Commission.

A list of the official and the more important unofficial functions is given below:

Saturday, April 30. Opening day. A luncheon was given to members of the Commission and distinguished
guests.

Wednesday, May 4. Luncheon given by the State Commission for Mrs. Martin H. Glynn, of Albany,
wife of National Commissioner Glynn, and for Mrs. John K. Stewart, wife of Commissioner Stewart.
Ladies only were present. The guests were received by Mrs. Norman E. Mack, assisted by Mrs.
Glynn, Mrs. Stewart and Mrs. Dore Lyon.

Friday, May 20. Reception given by the State Commission to the New York State delegation to
the National Editorial Association, 9 to 11 P. M. The guests were received in behalf of the
Commission by Commissioner and, Mrs. James H. Callanan, of Schenectady, and by Commissioner
and Mrs. John C. Woodbury of Rochester, assisted by Mrs. Dore Lyon.

Monday, May 23. Reception given by the National Society of New England Women. The guests were
received by Mrs. Swinburn, of New York, the President of the Society, Mrs. John C. Woodbury
and Mrs. James H. Callanan.

Tuesday, May 24. Reception given by the State Commission to the Federation of Women's Clubs,
4 to 6 P. M.

Wednesday, June 1. Breakfast at 12 M. given by the State Commission to Miss Alice Roosevelt.
Only ladies were present. The guests were received by Commissioner Mrs. Norman E. Mack, Mrs.
James H. Callanan, Mrs. John Young and Mrs. Dore Lyon. There were about 200 ladies present.

Tuesday, June 7. Ball given by President David R. Francis and Mrs. Francis in behalf of the
Louisiana Purchase Exposition Company to the West Point cadets, 9 to 12 P. M. Music was furnished
by two bands stationed in the north and south galleries of the entrance hall. Refreshments
were served upon the verandas. Among the distinguished guests were General Nelson A. Miles
and General H. C. Corbin.

Saturday, June 11. Reception tendered by the Executive Commissioners' Association to the State
Commissioners and World's Fair officials. This was an informal affair for the purpose of bringing
the States' representatives into closer relations. The receiving line consisted of Honorable
J. A. Yerrington, President of the Association; Mr. Charles A. Ball, President of the Executive
Committee of the Association; Mrs. F. B. Applebee; Mr. and Mrs. F. R. Conaway and Mr. Stacey
B. Rankin.

Wednesday, June 15. Luncheon by the State Commission in honor of Mrs. William Berri, wife of
Vice-President Berri, and Miss Stern, of New York city. The guests were received by Commissioner
Mrs. Norman E. Mack, Mrs. Berri and Miss Stern.

Friday, June 18. Dinner given at 7 P. M. by Mr. Louis Stern, Chairman of the Executive Committee
of the Commission, in honor of President and Mrs. Francis. Mr. Stern was assisted in receiving
by Miss Stern and Mrs. Norman E. Mack.

Saturday, June 25. Dedication of the New York State building. Exercises described in Chapter V.

Thursday, June 30. Reception given by the State Commission to officers and members of the Council
of the National Educational Association and to New York State teachers. The guests were received
by Vice-President and Mrs. William Berri; Commissioner and Mrs. John K. Stewart; Mrs. Dore
Lyon; Honorable Howard J. Rogers, Chief of the Department of Education of the Exposition, and
Mrs. Rogers; John W. Cooke, president of the National Educational Association; and Mrs. DeLancey
M. Ellis. An organ recital was played by S. H. Grover and refreshments were served in the grand
hall.

Monday, August 1. Reception given by the Executive Commissioners' Association.

Thursday, September 1. Reception given by the Executive Commissioners' Association.

Thursday, September 8. Reception given by Mrs. Dore Lyon to the Hostesses' Association.

Monday, September 12. Electrical engineers tendered a reception to the visiting engineers assembled
in convention on the Exposition grounds.

Monday to Wednesday, October 3 to 5. New York State week. Exercises described in Chapter VI.

Tuesday, October 11. Reception given by the Liberal Arts Club.

Friday, October 28. Dinner given by Commissioner Frederick R. Green, who was assisted in receiving
by Commissioner Mrs. Norman E. Mack.

Tuesday, November 15. Brooklyn day. Exercises described in Chapter VII.

Saturday, November 19. Luncheon given by the Michigan Commission to the Governor-elect of Michigan.
The invited guests included Vice-President William Berri and Secretary Charles A. Ball, of
the New York State Commission.

Monday, November 21. Reception and ball given by the Beta Sigma Chapter of the Kappa Sigma
Fraternity. (This function was to have been held in the Missouri building. The use of the State
building was extended on account of the destruction of the Missouri building by fire on Saturday,
November 19th).

Tuesday, November 22. Young people's dance. Courtesy to Missouri Commission on account of fire.

Thursday, November 24. Thanksgiving day. Exercises described in Chapter VIII.

Friday, November 25. Charity ball and Kirmess given by the ladies of St. Louis for the benefit
of the Martha Parsons Free Hospital for Children of St. Louis, and for the fund for the Trades
School for Girls of New York. The majority of the guests were in fancy costume. In addition
to the regular dancing program there were special fancy dances.

Monday, November 28. Dinner given by the State Commission in honor of Honorable Oscar S. Straus
and Mrs. Straus, and Honorable St. Clair McKelway and Mrs. McKelway. Vice-President Berri of
the Commission presided, and the guests were received by Vice-President and Mrs. Berri and
Mrs. Norman E. Mack, assisted by the guests of honor.

In addition to the above entertainments two musicales were given under the auspices of Boellman
Brothers; and the Pikers' Club, an organization composed of attaches of the State building,
gave a minstrel performance at the Inside Inn on Monday evening, September nineteenth, for
the benefit of the Model Playground and Day Nursery.

CHAPTER V

Dedication Day

The New York State building was dedicated with appropriate ceremonies on Saturday, June twenty-fifth.
The exercises were attended by Governor Odell and invited guests, members of the State Commission,
Exposition officials, State and foreign representatives and many others.

PROGRAM FOR DEDICATION DAY

The program for the day was as follows:

  10:30 A. M. Concert on Plaza in front of State building by Weil's band
        of St. Louis

  11:30 A. M. Exercises in grand hallway, William Berri, Vice-President
        of the Commission, presiding

  Invocation by the Rev. Carroll N. Davis, Dean of Christ Church
        Cathedral

  Address of welcome by President David R. Francis

  Address transferring State building to Governor Odell by Vice-President
        William Berri

  Acceptance by Governor Odell

  Organ recital by S. H. Grover

  8 to 11 P. M. Reception given to Governor and Mrs. Odell by the State
        Commission

  Music by the Haskell Indian band

The day opened bright and clear, the warm rays of the sun being tempered by a cool breeze.
The building was not opened to the public until the conclusion of the band concert, which was
held between 10:30 and 11:30. As soon as the doors were opened a large audience quickly gathered
to take part in the formal exercises of the day. In the assemblage was an interesting couple,
Mr. Horace Stowell, aged 93 years, and wife, who had journeyed from Madison, N. Y., a distance
of over a thousand miles, to be present at the dedication ceremonies and to visit the Fair.

THE FORMAL EXERCISES

Promptly at 11:30 William Berri, Vice-President of the Commission, called the assemblage to
order and introduced Rev. Carroll N. Davis, who offered the invocation. At its conclusion Mr.
Berri delivered his address. The slight change in program was due to the fact that President
Francis was necessarily detained for a short time.

Vice-President Berri said:

"Governor Odell, it is with very great pleasure your New York State Commission to the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition welcomes you in the New York State building here erected upon the spot
where a little over one year ago you honored us by turning the first spadeful of earth for
the foundation.

"Your Commission has endeavored to carry out your expressed wishes to provide for the people
of New York who may visit this wonderful World's Fair, a building that shall fittingly represent
the State of New York and add its share with the other state buildings to beautifying the grounds.

"We are much pleased that it is a matter of record that not only was this building complete
in every detail and its doors thrown open for inspection on the opening day of the Exposition,
but also that all exhibits under the control of your Commission, in the various departments,
most of which are very much larger than ever before shown by New York State, were ready and
in place at the moment President Francis officially declared that the great St. Louis Exposition
was open to receive the world.

"We wish to thank President Francis and all officials connected with him in this great undertaking,
for the uniform courtesy with which we have been treated, and for the valuable assistance that
has been so generously given to us in carrying out our plans.

"It has been a most pleasurable task. We have fully accomplished what we have sought to attain.
There is nothing lacking in the realization of our anticipations. As to whether we have acted
wisely it is for you to judge. If, as the executive head of our State, it shall please you
to commend the results we submit for your approval, this will be the proudest day in the history
of the Commission."

As Governor Odell rose to respond to the remarks of Mr. Berri, he received an ovation, for
which he bowed acknowledgment several times and finally raised his hand for silence. He spoke
as follows:

ADDRESS OF GOVERNOR ODELL

"Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen"

"We are here to-day to dedicate a building which represents the interest of New York State
in this great Exposition. Here, during the period when thousands shall visit these grounds,
those who owe allegiance to the Empire State will find a place which will typify to them their
home and impress them, let us hope, to a greater degree with the vastness of our State and
of the position which it occupies in our commonwealth of nations. To those who have been intrusted
with the work we owe thanks for the conception of their duty and for this magnificent edifice
which, in its strength and beauty of architecture, is symbolical of the Empire State. In every
phase of our nation's history, in all that has made it great and powerful and respected, New
York has been both conservative and wise in the aid which it offered, powerful in the resources
which it furnished in the building up of our republic. From the time when the courage and patriotism
of our forefathers wrought out the nation down to the latest acquisition of our territory there
is no page of history which does not tell of the devotion and statesmanship of New York's citizens.

"It is always a remarkable event in the history of the world when one nation disposes of any
part of its domain to another through peaceful methods. War has almost always been the means
through which nations have expanded and pushed forward their boundary lines. Trade requiring
an outlet has more frequently been the cause of bloodshed than almost any other national or
international question. That our country, therefore, at an early period in its history, should
have been able, through peaceful means, to secure the vast domain beyond the Mississippi is
a tribute to the statesmanlike policies of those who conceived its purchase. True it may be
that the wars of other nations aided in its consummation, but it is also equally true that
the man who was most directly responsible for the purchase was a son of the Empire State. Nor
did the results of this early diplomatic victory stop here. The principle thus established
has frequently led to more peaceful methods of adjusting questions of territorial boundary,
both in our own and other countries. It may be that much that has since been accomplished through
arbitration is but the evolution of this idea, and it may lead, let us hope, to the time when
such questions will no longer render necessary the arbitrament of the sword.

"It was proper, therefore, that our State, in its dignity, with its conservatism and with its
intense patriotism, should be among the first to contribute of its means to make of this Exposition
the grand success which it promises. With each succeeding international exposition the world
becomes wiser, artisans more skillful, the contributions to science and art more valuable;
in a word, they raise the standard of civilization and hasten the time when all men shall pay
homage to the ruler of the universe. As inventions are developed which make the worker more
effective, which broaden the field of usefulness, there come responsibilities and problems
which require education and discernment to meet and solve. Under the softened touch of Christianity,
religion and education there should come about a universal brotherhood of man broad enough
in scope to embrace all humanity. In all the work of the world, in all that is for the development
of man, in everything that holds out promise to the future, New York State we may justly say,
if not the leader, is at least in the fore ranks. Its broad acres are rich and fertile, and
the commerce of the world enters at its ports. The manufacturer finds willing hands with remunerative
wages striving to produce that which is necessary for our comfort and which adds so much to
the wealth of the nation. Its laws are broad and ample in their scope, with no distinction
as between man and man, and beneficent in their operation, while our citizens evince impulses
which are worthy of emulation by all those who believe in the future of our republic. We have
more of wealth and a greater population than any other State within the Union. Our cities are
cosmopolitan in character, made up of representatives of all nations, but so nicely adjusted
are our laws that they are assimilated into our population and become Americans among Americans,
actuated by a common patriotism and a common desire for the continued development of our land.

"In these great halls, in these magnificent buildings devoted to art, to education, to mechanics
and to agriculture, exhibits are to be found which are on a par if they do not excel, those
of other nations. The advancement of New York, however, is but typical of every other State
in the Union, in the continued prosperity of which all are equally interested. A nation of
separate States, there is no dividing line of envy between them, no wish except for the prosperity
and development of each, a common hope for a common country. How necessary it is, therefore,
that in all that has to do with society a broad catholic spirit should dominate and control.
Ours is not a country of classes, but one of equality--a country whose aim is the education
of its citizens. It is our common object to perpetuate the principles of American independence.
Anything that retards human progress, or that would make of a man a mere machine without brains,
is to be deprecated. Our object should be to encourage and to promote thrift, and to instill
into the mind of every citizen a desire for advancement. In this direction our State will be
found always in the forefront and the evidence of her greatness will be measured rather by
the intelligence of her citizens than by mere accumulation of wealth. Therefore, that which
protects labor, which encourages capital, should be the aim of modern legislation. While we
participate in the celebration of this great national event, as we mark our progress along
every line, we feel a natural pride in all that has been done in other States, in all that
has been accomplished by other people. As we look into the future, as we consider its possibilities,
let us hope that our nation will never forget that this government is one by the people, and
that its power and influence among the nations of the world will continue only so long as due
weight and consideration is given to the rights of individuals. While rejoicing as citizens
of New York, let us hope for the continuance of those policies and principles which have made
our nation prosperous, and let us not forget that moderation and conservatism should be the
measure of our efforts, and all that we do shall be for the advancement of all the people.

"The citizens of New York extend their congratulations to the people of the west and northwest.
We hope that from this great Exposition there shall come a closer communication between all
the people of the earth, a broadening of human effort, the advancement of civilization and
a growing respect for our country and our flag which will make us a power for the good and
peace of the world.

"It is a great pleasure for me to accept on behalf of the State of New York this magnificent
building, and again to congratulate you as the President of the Commission, and the architect
who has wrought this wonderful work, for the painstaking care that you have exercised in the
development of New York's interests in this great Exposition."

During the address of the Governor, President Francis quietly entered and was introduced at
its conclusion. He was warmly received and made a characteristic address. He paid a warm tribute
to the Empire State and her Chief Executive, and complimented the State Commission upon the
work it had performed and spoke of the New York State building as one of the social centers
of the Exposition.

His remarks in part follow:

"Your distinguished son, Robert R. Livingston, was the man who first negotiated for the purchase
of Louisiana. No exposition would be complete without a representation from the Empire State.
The Exposition management has already pointed with pride to the New York building, the social
functions of which have been among the marked attractions of the Exposition.

"I am here to thank New York not only for her material contribution to the World's Fair, but
for the spirit her citizens have given to this Exposition.

"We of the West flatter ourselves that we have arrived at that stage of our progress when we
can invite every people on the globe to come and see for themselves what a century of Western
civilization has accomplished."

At the conclusion of the ceremonies Governor Odell held an informal reception, during which
Mr. S. H. Grover, of New York, played an organ recital.

THE EVENING RECEPTION

The State building was appropriately decorated for the evening reception given in honor of
Governor and Mrs. Odell, and many hundred guests called to pay their respects between the hours
of eight and eleven. The receiving party consisted of Governor Benjamin B. Odell, Jr., Mrs.
Odell, Mr. and Mrs. William Berri, Mrs. Norman E. Mack, Mr. and Mrs. John K. Stewart, Mr. and
Mrs. John Young, Mrs. Daniel Manning, Mr. Frank S. McGraw, Mr. Frederick R. Green, Mr. John
C. Woodbury, and Mr. William T. Van Brunt, representing President Harriman. The guests were
presented to the receiving party by Major Harrison K. Bird, private secretary to the Governor.
Two lines of United States marines guarded the approach to the receiving line and prevented
crowding and confusion.

Music was furnished by the Haskell Indian band and later in the evening dancing was indulged
in by many of the guests present. Supper was served at ten o'clock at small tables on the verandas,
the following being the menu:

     CELERY             OLIVES               RADIS
AMANDES SALEES                         FEUILLES SUEDOISES
             BOUCHEES DE VOLAILLE A LA REINE
CANAPES DE LUXE                       SANDWICHES ASSORTIS
 GLACE NEW YORK                            FRIANDISES
                         CAFE
    LEMONADE                           EXPOSITION PUNCH

CHAPTER VI

New York State Week

The week beginning October third was set aside by the Exposition authorities as New York week;
Monday, October third, being designated "New York City Day," and Tuesday, October fourth, "New
York State Day."

NEW YORK CITY DAY

New York City Day was observed with exercises in the City Building on the Model street at eleven
o'clock in the morning, which were presided over by Thomas W. Hynes, the Commissioner officially
representing the city. Mayor McClellan was represented by Charles V. Fornes, President of the
Board of Aldermen. There were also present an official delegation representing the city. Addresses
were made by Archbishop J. J. Glennon, of St. Louis; Right Reverend Bishop McNamara, of New
York city; Walter B. Stevens, Secretary, and F. J. V. Skiff, Director of Exhibits of the Exposition;
Howard J. Rogers, Chief of Department of Education and Social Economy, and others. Luncheon
was served at noon at the Tyrolean Alps, and from three to five in the afternoon a reception
was held in the City Building, which was attended by exposition officials, national and state
representatives, St. Louis society and many New Yorkers. In the evening a sumptuous banquet
was served in the Town Hall of the Tyrolean Alps, which was presided over by Commissioner Hynes.

SERENADE TO GOVERNOR ODELL

Governor Odell and staff and invited guests reached St. Louis Monday morning, October third.
At noon the Governor was tendered a serenade by the Philippine Constabulary band of 100 pieces.
On Monday evening a dinner was given at the State building by the New York State Commission
in honor of the Governor and Mrs. Odell, and President and Mrs. Francis. Owing to a death in
the family, President and Mrs. Francis were unable to be present. Mr. D. M. Houser, of the
Board of Directors, represented President Francis. There were no formal speeches, Governor
Odell simply regretting that President Francis could not be present.

PROGRAM FOR NEW YORK STATE DAY

The program for New York State day was as follows:

  11 A.M. Concert by the Garde Republicaine band, of
        Paris, France, on the Plaza in front of the State
        building

  12 M. Formal exercises of the day in the grand entrance
        hall, Col. Edward Lyman Bill presiding
    Invocation by Rev. Dr. William W. Boyd, of St.
        Louis, formerly of New York
    Address of welcome by Col. Edward Lyman Bill.
    Address of greeting in behalf of Exposition Company
        by Hon. Franklin Ferriss
    Address by Governor Benjamin B. Odell, Jr.
    Organ recital by S. H. Grover, of New York city

  9 to 12 P. M. Reception and ball given by the New York
        State Commission in honor of Governor and Mrs.
        Odell. Dancing after ten o'clock

While not marked by the presence of militia and other spectacular features which generally
accompany the celebration of a State Day, the exercises in the State building which were held
at noon were most dignified and impressive. The day opened clear and cool, and the spacious
verandas of the State building were well filled long before the time set for the concert.

THE GARDE REPUBLICAINE BAND

The Garde Republicaine band is composed of 100 skilled musicians and is considered by many
to be the finest band in the world. No musical organization which visited the Exposition during
the entire season received more compliments or more flattering press notices than those accorded
this band. They played the following program:

  1. March, "Lisbon"--L. Planel
  2. Overture, "La Princesse Jaime"--C. Saint-Saens
  3. Fantasie On the Opera "LeCompte Ory"--G. Rossini
      Soloists, MM. Paradis, Laforgue, Joseph Barthelemy,
      Morfaux, Couilland, Fournier
  4. Three Celebrated Menuets--
      (a) Menuet--L. van Beethoven
      (b) "Ox" Menuet--J. Haydn
      (c) Menuet Favori--W. A. Mozart
  5. March, "Egyptian"--J. Strauss

At the conclusion of the formal exercises they were entertained at luncheon by the State Commission.
Through their leader, M. Gabriel Pares, they expressed hearty appreciation of the courteous
treatment accorded them by the State of New York, and attested the same by playing a second
concert in front of the State building between the hours of two and four in the afternoon.
It was worthy of note that the building of the State of New York was the only State building
at which this band played during its entire stay at the Exposition, their concerts being invariably
given either in Festival Hall or in the grand bandstand in Machinery Gardens.

THE FORMAL EXERCISES

At twelve o'clock the assemblage was called to order by Colonel Edward Lyman Bill.

The personal party of the Governor consisted of Governor Benjamin B. Odell, Jr., Mrs. Odell,
Mrs. William Kelly, Mrs. S.L. Dawes, Mrs. Hall and Miss Odell.

The Governor's staff comprised Brigadier-General Nelson H. Henry, Adjutant-General and Chief
of Staff; Major Harrison K. Bird, Military Secretary; Lieutenant-Colonel Charles H. Sherrill,
Aide-de-camp; Lieutenant-Commander Alfred Brooks Fry, Naval Militia, Aide-de-camp; Major Charles
C. Davis, Thirteenth Regiment, Aide-de-camp; Major Richard H. Laimbeer, Second Brigade Staff,
Aide-de-camp; Major Amos E. McIntyre, First Regiment, Aide-de-camp; Captain John T. Sadler,
Thirtieth Separate Company, Aide-de-camp; Captain Edwin W. Dayton, Twenty-second Regiment,
Aide-de-camp; First Lieutenant William L. Thompson, Twelfth Separate Company, Aide-de-camp;
First Lieutenant Chauncey Matlock, Third Battery, Aide-de-camp; First Lieutenant Thomas Barron,
Seventh Regiment, Aide-de-camp; First Lieutenant Augustus S. Chatfield, Eighth Regiment, Aide-de-camp;
First Lieutenant Cornelius Vanderbilt, Twelfth Regiment, Aide-de-camp.

The joint committee of the Legislature comprised Hon. Jotham P. Allds, Norwich; Hon. S. Frederick
Nixon, Westfield; Hon. James T. Rogers, Binghamton; Hon. Edwin A. Merritt, Potsdam; Hon. Robert
Linn Cox, Buffalo; Hon. Thomas D. Lewis, Oswego.

Colonel Bill called upon the Rev. W. W. Boyd, of St. Louis, formerly of New York, to invoke
the Divine blessing.

Dr. W. W. Boyd:

"Our Father, we thank Thee for this beautiful day and this assembly of the loyal sons and daughters
of our native State. We rejoice that Thou hast gathered us into families, and so into communities,
commonwealths and the perfect union of all the states.

"We bless Thee for the history of this great State, its part in the glorious Revolution, in
the preservation of the Union, its development in every branch of human industry, its material
prosperity, but above all, for its humanities, its growth in philanthropy, education and religion.

"Bless, we beseech Thee, His Excellency the Governor, and all associated with him in making,
interpreting and executing the laws.

"Bless the President, Directors and all who have helped to create and develop this marvelous
Exposition, especially the Commissioners of the State of New York, who have erected this splendid
building, and by the varied exhibits in the palaces of the Exposition portrayed the wonderful
progress of the Empire State.

"And grant, O most merciful Father, that the fruits of this great Exposition may be enlarged
national prosperity, international comity and peace, and the strengthening of the ties of human
brotherhood throughout the world.

"May Thy special blessing be upon the exercises of this hour; may the words of our mouth and
the meditation of our hearts be acceptable in Thy sight, O Lord, our Strength and our Redeemer.
Amen."

Colonel Bill then delivered the following address:

ADDRESS OF COLONEL BILL

"On behalf of the New York State Commission I extend greeting and hearty welcome to the official
representative of President Francis, to Governor Odell, our distinguished guests, to the sons
and daughters of New York, and to all who have honored us with their presence here to-day.
It was on this site, upon May 2, 1903, Governor Odell lifted the first spadeful of earth where
this beautiful structure has since been erected. Upon that occasion New York was represented
by our Chief Executive, his staff, and troops numbering nearly fifteen hundred men from all
branches of the military and naval service of the State. On last April thirtieth this building,
sumptuously appointed, was formally opened to the public. I may say, with pardonable pride,
that the report which the Commission made at that time showed that not only was our building
complete in every detail, but all of the State exhibits as well were ready for inspection.
The work of our Commission has been along pleasant lines, and we have been constantly stimulated
by hearty support from the Exposition authorities. It is fitting that we should express our
sincere appreciation to President Francis and the sterling coterie of men with whom he is surrounded
for the aid and assistance which they have so willingly rendered this Commission in every way.
Our Governor has taken a warm interest in New York's participation at this Fair, and on many
occasions he has made manifest his desire that New York's representation should be ample and
complete in every particular. In many of the magnificent places, such as Education, Agriculture,
Horticulture, Forestry, Fish and Game, Mines and Metallurgy, our State has collective exhibits
which show her varied resources. In this beautiful structure will be evidenced further proof
of New York's generous participation in this great Exposition. The Louisiana Purchase Exposition
has a deep interest for New York, for one of the principal figures instrumental in bringing
about that purchase was Livingston, a distinguished son of the Empire State, and it was he
who negotiated the treaty and was first to sign it. And yet the real authors of that great
transaction on this side of the ocean were neither Jefferson, Madison nor Livingston, and I
think historians will agree with me when I say it was more the influence of those hardy frontiersmen
of Kentucky who demanded free navigation for the magnificent inland river which rolls by us
in its eternal flow to the Gulf of Mexico. The influence of those men, the vanguard of civilization,
could not be disregarded by those who were at the head of our governmental affairs more than
a century ago. Then, the more we look at this transaction, the more evident it is that the
outcome of it was due to that man whose shadow even now falls sharply athwart the whole continent
of Europe--Napoleon Bonaparte. It was his ambition which threw into the grasp of the infant
republic the splendid empire out of which have been carved twelve sovereign States and two
Territories. At that time Napoleon uttered one of those far-seeing expressions which is important
in its prophecy. Confederacies that are called perpetual last only until one of the contending
parties finds it is to its interests to break them. It is to prevent the danger to which the
colossal power of England subjects us that I would provide such a remedy.' No such vision of
the future came to our American statesmen, many of whom bitterly opposed the purchase of the
Louisiana Territory. When the bill came up for discussion on the floor of Congress, Josiah
Quincy, afterwards mayor of Boston, and for many years president of Harvard College, said,
speaking of the incorporation in the Union of the territory of Louisiana: 'It appears to me
that this measure would justify revolution in this country.

"What has this purchase meant to New York to have in this Union this great empire? What has
it meant to the Union itself to have this splendid territory incorporated in it? It has meant
for New York prosperity and increased commerce to the people of all our land and furnished
homes for the sons and daughters of New York. The States carved out of that great Empire have
all borne their share in the heat of our national life and they have contributed immeasurably
to the nation's growth and development, and we have come in this country, notwithstanding the
immense separation and diversity of interests, to work together under one flag, with one interest
for a common country, and this great Exposition should teach not only us of the East but of
all other sections of the country that we should avoid the danger of finding ourselves separate
in sentiment from one another. In this great western empire we all take a common interest,
and the success of this Exposition redounds to the credit and honor, not only of the men who
have carried it to such successful issue, but upon the whole country. We all shine in the reflected
glory of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, which shows the high-water mark of human progress.
It is indeed the greatest of all international fairs and a lasting credit to the artistic skill
of the men who planned and executed it. It is the culmination of all that has been done in
the wide expanse of territory purchased from France in 1803, and the achievements of all nations
in the world since that day. It is a far cry from the early oriental fairs in the East, which
were perhaps the early ancestors of this great Exposition, and all honor and credit and glory
is due the men who stood shoulder to shoulder in carrying this great enterprise to such a magnificent
culmination. It represents American skill, American enterprise, American endeavor, and its
influence will be felt upon this country long after those men who have played their successful
part in this great moving drama have passed from earth. Words are inadequate to fittingly describe
the beauties of this magnificent Exposition. It is individual effort as well as concerted effort
which has brought about these splendid results. It is one of the brightest pages in American
history, and what glorious memories a perusal of these pages arouse! We can turn the pages
of recorded history from the time when the boats of the adventurous Genoese unfolded their
white wings in the harbor of Palos and sped across the unknown seas to bring back upon their
return evidence of the existence of a new world far across the wide waste of waters. In fancy
we picture that sturdy band kneeling with Columbus, richly attired, upon the tropic sands,
while over them floats the blood and gold banner of Spain, as the priest clothed in vestments
of his office asks the blessings of Almighty God upon the land which Columbus claims in the
name of the House of Castile. In the background we see waving palms and dark-skinned men who
gaze with awe upon the white discoverers. In another scene we see the cold wintry waves surge
and dash around the frail craft fighting its way across dark tempestuous seas from Plymouth,
the little bark tossed like a feather here and there until she lands on that rock-bound coast
known as New England. We see that little colony--Freedom's seed--germinate and thrive; first
the grain, then the tender plant, ever exposed to severe conditions, then matured into the
oak of a giant nation. We see those brave colonists who have planted the banner of human liberty
upon the inhospitable shores push ever onward, ever extending the fringe of civilization, struggling
against disheartening obstacles, fighting wild beasts and savage men, but pushing on with indomitable
courage. The people became the rulers and the accident of birth carried no rank, conferred
no privilege. We see the loosely joined colonies building a nation which contained these elements
of greatness little dreamed of by those hardy pioneers who so generously gave up their offering
of blood on Freedom's altar. The kaleidoscope still turns. We see those intrepid founders of
the school of liberty pushing their lines ever onward across rivers, deserts, over mountains
clad with eternal snow until the golden shores of California gladden the eye of our valiant
explorers. Then a pause, and over land and sea hang dark clouds of fratricidal war. Four long
years through the valleys and over the mountains of the Southland surges the red tide of battle.
The days were dark and full of gloom, when lo! the clouds parted and the heavens again were
blue. The nation had been born anew, and on the fair pages of her history appear no longer
the dark stain of human slavery. The strong arm of enterprise quickly washed away the red stain
of war. The word 'America' had a deeper and more sacred meaning than before, and the nation
was re-established on the indestructible foundation of national unity; the blocks were laid
in the cement of fraternal esteem. Still the picture which we see revolves. Across the waters
of the Pacific America sweeps towards the fulfillment of her world wide destiny. The Stars
and Stripes wave over the palace of the kings in Honolulu. Still again the nation's sword is
unsheathed in the cause of human liberty, and the last vestige of Spanish power is swept from
the new world. The thunder of Dewey's guns awakens us to the fact that the American banner
is planted into the far Orient, there to stay forever, and under its protecting folds manifold
blessings are carried to the people of those islands lying in the purple spheres of summer
seas. While the drum of all American progress is heard around the world, it too may be truthfully
said that the sun never sets upon the soil over which Freedom's banner proudly floats, for
when the light of the dying day is fading from Porto Rican hills the golden rays of the morning
sun are reflected upon the shimmering folds of Old Glory on the gray old battlements of Manila.

"It is indeed inspiring, the history of this great nation, guided to its ultimate issue as
a stately ship is wafted over the seas to the harbor of its destination. I wonder if in this
ceaseless struggle for gold and gain we pause long enough to study the true character of those
men to whose valorous deeds we owe so much, those men who planted the tree of human liberty
so deep that even the shock of revolution of succeeding wars could not uproot it, those men
who demanded of Jefferson a free Mississippi and who made this Exposition possible. All honor
to those heroes who stood shoulder to shoulder in the days which tried men's souls, who, in
the gloom and suffering of Valley Forge, saw in the distance the rainbow of hope shining over
the dark clouds of defeat. They saw the light of a great nation which would serve as a beacon
in the world progress and a refuge for the persecuted of the nations of earth. All races contributed
to the founding of this beloved country. The roster of the Revolution is filled with names
which show that the liberty loving of all European nations gave up a generous offering of blood
on Freedom's altar. In our veins courses blood of all nations, and it is the healthy commingling
of that blood which has produced a race of world conquerors. It has produced the men who have
made possible this great Exposition. We have been placed in the world's crucible, have been
melted in the glowing heat of a nascent life, and have been forged into a weapon which shall
carve the world. Our ideals are worthy, the hopes and aspirations of the nation devoted to
justice and love; ideals which shall be the steadfast inspirer of nations and individuals to
uprightness, to justice and to honor."

The presiding officer then expressed regret at the unavoidable absence of President Francis
on account of bereavement in his family. He introduced judge Franklin Ferriss, General Counsel
to the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Company, who delivered the following address:

ADDRESS OF JUDGE FERRISS

"I regret extremely, for your sake and his, that the brilliant man who stands at the head of
this Exposition cannot be here to-day to greet you in person. Still I must admit that I am
not unmindful of the fact that I owe to his misfortune and yours the very great privilege of
appearing before you to extend a welcome to the people of my native State.

"The President of the Exposition bids me say to you that there has been no occasion on these
grounds--that there will be none in the future--in which he would more gladly participate than
this.

"The Exposition management feels under peculiar obligations to the State of New York. We are
indebted largely to her prompt and liberal co-operation for the high stand which the Exposition
has taken. We are indebted to the Governor, to the New York Commission, to the gracious hostesses
of this building, to the splendid woman who has, with rare tact and dignity, co-operated with
the Exposition as President of the Board of Lady Managers.

"In the building of this Exposition, science, invention, art, manufacture, the field, the forest,
the mine, the air and the water have contributed their choicest treasures. How well we have
succeeded in presenting them you must judge. But I wish to say to you that no matter how high
a standard we have reached, still more important than all else is the representation upon these
grounds of our splendid American man and womanhood. No man can walk about this Plateau of States,
view these beautiful structures, see the people coming together from the north and the south,
the east and the west, uniting in common loyalty and respect for our institutions, without
feeling his heart swell with pride and gratitude.

"It is no disparagement to our sister States, for me, a loyal son of New York, to say that
it is most fitting that the Empire State should be pre-eminent here also in the beauty of her
building, the character of her exhibits and the magnificent representation of her people.

"I am proud of the State of New York--proud of her history, her scholars, her statesmen, her
soldiers--proud of her material prosperity--proud of the great metropolis through whose gates
thunders the commerce of the United States.

"I love the State of New York--her broad and fertile valleys, her stately rivers, the lakes
which glisten like jewels on her bosom, her mountains which rear their tops to the clouds;
but most of all I love the quiet life of the country home--the honesty and industry of the
plain people.

"Our old home! Who can forget it? The great barn with its huge beams and fragrant mows of hay--the
sparkling brook whose shining shallows bathed my naked feet--the broad meadow with its fence
corners of luscious berries--the old schoolhouse, whose desks are impressed with generations
of jack-knives! Was there ever so sweet a draught as that which we drew from the shining depths
of the old well?

"And yet the country boy grew restless. With his ear to the ground, he heard the distant hum
of industry. He heard the tramp of a million feet in the great cities. He felt that the battle
of life was on, and, that he must take his place in the struggle. And so he turned his back
upon the old home.

"Ah! how many grave faced fathers and tender, sweet faced mothers have watched their boys,
one by one, go out into the world, and have turned back in solitude, cheered by an occasional
visit, an occasional letter, to wait until their days should be fulfilled. And how many of
us must now say that their days have been fulfilled, and that a simple stone marks their last
resting place in the village churchyard.

"What have we gained by this? Contentment? They had it. Respect of our fellowmen? They had
it. Success in life? They had it. True, their fortunes were small--and yet they had no clutching
fear that speculation, fraud or treachery would rob them of the fruit of a life's toil. And
they had an abiding faith that there would be provision for the years to come. Aye, that there
would be provision for the last journey to that land, where, according to their simple faith:
'The wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest.'

"I will yield to no man in loyalty to the State of my adoption; but who can chide me if my
heart clings to the home of my childhood, to the graves of my forefathers?

"If we, who have left the old home to build a new one in the West, can be faithful to the traditions
of our childhood--if we can bequeath to our children the lessons of industry, honesty and economy
which our fathers gave to us--we shall do more to honor the State of New York than we could
do by rearing marble to the skies."

The presiding officer then introduced Honorable Benjamin B. Odell, Jr.; Governor of the State,
who received a great ovation, it being some time before the Governor was able to proceed with
his remarks. His speech was punctuated with liberal applause.

He said:

ADDRESS OF GOVERNOR ODELL

"The diplomacy which led up to the acquisition of the Louisiana territory furnishes one of
the most interesting incidents in the world's history. The establishment of a republic devoted
to the interests of, and affording liberty of conscience and freedom of action to its citizens,
was an experiment in government which could not have succeeded if any restraint had been placed
upon that liberty, or if its constitution had not been broad enough to meet the demands of
a growing country. From the settlement of America down to the Revolutionary War sanguinary
strife had been the lot of the American people. The thrifty Dutch and the stolid determined
Anglo-Saxon sought not in this country a mere temporary home, for, unlike the Spaniards, their
dream was not of gold, but rather their hope was for a liberty so broad and catholic in its
character that it would grow with succeeding years and make certain that peace they had sought
for in vain in the land of their birth.

"The earlier colonial and Indian wars had drawn upon the resources and heroism of our forefathers.
Hardship and toil had imbued them with a consciousness of their strength and instilled into
them that spirit of independence which enabled them, after long years of strife, to establish
our republic. It was this people, after having gained their independence, in the belief that
foreign complications were forever at an end, who, at the close of the Revolution, turned their
attention to peaceful pursuits and endeavored to meet every requirement of a growing country.
With characteristic skill and industry they began the development of those tremendous resources
of our country, the measure of which is almost beyond human conception. Here, under liberal
laws and wise administration, the people found that which had been heretofore lacking in the
government of the world. Invention had not yet made possible the intercommunication facilities
which we of the present enjoy. Upon water transit, therefore, they were obliged to depend for
an outlet for the commerce of their western territory. The barriers which were sought to be
interposed to communication over the mighty river which rises in the northwest brought forth
vigorous protests from those who had just begun to cultivate its fertile fields. Angry passions
were aroused, and the people of our country who had been so successful in carving out the republic
demanded that this barrier should be removed. Livingston and Monroe, clothed only with power
to effect a treaty which should insure this right of transit, with no possible opportunity
of quick communication with their government, took upon themselves the responsibility which
brought to a successful consummation the relinquishment of this vast territory.

"Thus was brought to the people of the United States a question which had never been contemplated
by the framers of the constitution. That instrument had been the production of the wisest men
of the times. They had successfully met the problem of drawing into an indissoluble union the
thirteen states, many of which were acting under peculiar laws which were contrary to the Declaration
of Independence, under which the battles for freedom had been fought and won. While there was
authority for the admission of new states, there was no constitutional permission for the purchase
of territory. The power of the Federal government to perform acts of sovereignty had not yet
been passed upon, and there was grave doubt as to the wisdom of ratifying the treaty without
a constitutional amendment. When we look over the results which have followed this expansion
of our country, when we calculate our manifest growth in population, in wealth and in industry,
all of these appear insignificant beside the result which was accomplished in showing to the
world that we were living under a constitution broad enough in its provisions to be so interpreted
as to insure success to popular government. That Jefferson and his advisers acted wisely in
so construing their power at that time is undoubted. If there were no other achievements of
that wonderful administration, then this alone would suffice to make it a memorable one.

"Doubt, lack of courage and insincere opposition are always the refuge of a coward. Here was
a nation demanding that which was necessary for its trade, desirous of reaching a solution
through peaceful means if possible, but determined to acquire it at all hazards if necessary.
There was no question as to the consent of those whom we took over, and to whom we gave the
protection of our flag, or as to nice points of constitutionality, when the greater object
in view was the onward progress of civilization, the building up of hope and the fulfillment
of our destiny as a nation, to perpetuate those principles which mean so much in the redeeming
of the world. The exigencies of a later war found a precedent in the courage of Jefferson and
enabled Lincoln to wipe from the escutcheon of state the blot of slavery which had too long
tarnished it.

"That the acquisition of this territory was accomplished through peaceful means rather than
by bloodshed was another triumph for civilization. While wars have come since, and may come
in the future, the plan of arbitration which has been adopted so generally by this and other
nations may perhaps have had its inception in this peaceful solution of a burning and important
question to this country. Our Union now is one that is composed of commonwealths bound together
by all that means common interest, the common weal and common protection of all the people.
It leads to the hope that when the representatives of all of the states have decreed by a majority
that which is for the best interest of the whole country, then these questions should no longer
be the subject of partisanship or party differences, but the government should have the loyal
support of all who believe in America and her future. The same laws govern us, the same protection
should be and is accorded to every citizen, and there is no individual or isolated community
that does not share in the prosperity of all others whose interests are on the same plane of
equality. For a time natural advantages may unduly favor one section of the country, but the
accumulation of wealth brings about the development of the natural resources by which other
sections are built up, and their people share in the general prosperity. Our State perhaps
has benefited more through the development of the west and the northwest territory than almost
any other commonwealth. The natural valleys which permitted the building of the Erie canal
and the connection of the Great Lakes with the harbor of New York brought this territory in
close communication with the Atlantic seaboard. The growing demands of the world led to the
cultivation of the fertile fields of the west, the development of the mines and the building
up of cities and manufactures, until to-day we have other ports whose facilities have been
increased by the improvement of waterways and the building of thousands and thousands of miles
of railroad. While there may be an apparent decrease in some localities and a corresponding
benefit in others, yet so intimate are our connections and associations that the prosperity
of one, instead of being a menace to the growth of any other locality, really aids in building
it up. So diversified are our interests, so skillful our people, that we may compare the whole
Union to a great workshop, one vast cultivated field of industry, all laboring, not for the
advancement of separate cities or localities, but for the continued growth of our common country.

"It is only through ignorance that people have a misconception of these truths. The development
of the human mind is no less important than the development of the physical condition of man.
His education, therefore, is a paramount duty of the state, and his protection against the
weakening of his physical condition is equally important. That legislation has recognized these
facts is shown in laws, not only of the nation, but of each individual state, which seek to
guard and protect the youth against unwise labor, which seek to instill into his mind that
intelligence which comes only from wise and broad educational facilities. Every able bodied
citizen of our country is an asset, and those who through weakness, however painful the admission
may be, are incapacitated from labor, must be entered upon the debit side of the national ledger.
Therefore, the laws that guard against burdensome toil, too long hours of labor, and against
ignorance, are not only humanitarian in their character, but are best calculated to promote
the interest of all the people. In the division of society, those who labor and those who represent
capital should always be in accord, and the demands of either should never trespass upon the
rights of the other. It is too frequently the case that through misunderstanding of our laws
and the higher economical conditions that friction does arise between these two great elements
of society. The right of every man to sell his products or his labor in the best market is
unquestioned, and any interference with this principle of sound government is a menace to the
republic itself. We are reaching a point in our history when conservative and wise judgment
must prevail, and the common sense of the people dictates such a solution of these problems
as will meet every demand that is in harmony with sound government. Our own State has taken
long steps in advance upon these questions, and to us with whom these differences more frequently
occur the people will look for wise deliberations and conclusions.

"Every man should be a part of the government. He should feel it to be as much his duty to
respond to civic responsibilities as do those living under a monarchy, whose early tuition
instills in them the belief that they owe the best part of their lives to the military service
of their government. As they are undeterred by fear of death or disaster, so should our young
men be undeterred from entering public life by calumny, villification and abuse, which they
see too frequently and too unjustly bestowed upon others.

"New York is here to-day by its official representatives to testify first to its loyalty to
the purposes for which this Exposition was conceived; to show the people of the West that in
their progress we are interested, and that to them we look for such returns in dividends upon
the stock of patriotism as will give to our nation men of energy, of right impulses. To you
we owe much, and from you we expect much. Our efforts will be to aid you in every laudable
undertaking, to stand behind you in all that means the prosperity of our common country. You
have here an Exposition of which you may be justly proud. Nothing like it has ever been known
in the annals of the world. Skilled workmen from all parts of the earth are here to aid in
its success. Here you witness not only the steady progress that has been made in the sciences,
the arts, and agriculture, but you have before you also exhibits from some of the possessions
which have recently come under our control. We may study here some of the problems which demand
solution at the hands of the American people. Our flag has been planted in a far-off land,
and we must face responsibilities which it would be cowardly to shirk. A message has come to
us as to all other nations, to do the Master's bidding and to spread christianity and civilization
into the remotest parts of the earth. To us have been intrusted duties that have cost us the
blood of some of the bravest men of the north and of the south, of the east and west. Here
we may see something of that which has been accomplished, as well as a presentation of those
conditions which it is our duty to correct. It is our privilege to give to others the same
liberty which we enjoy ourselves, to establish some form of government such as ours whenever
these people are ready for it, and it is our duty to protect them in their weakness until they
are prepared for it. It was the dream of our forefathers that our country should be confined
between these two magnificent oceans, but despite these hopes in later years additional responsibilities
have come, Which the American people are too proud to shirk and too courageous to abandon.
There is no one who has seen the progress which is here represented who does not believe that
the work for civilization which is ours to perform has already had such an impetus that the
time will come when we shall bless those who had the courage to stand for it against those
who demanded another solution of this important question. To our credit be it said, that no
true American demands the surrender of these possessions, and that the only question of difference
between the people of our country is whether they shall be given their independence now, or
when they are in a condition to enjoy it.

"This Exposition stands, not only as a monument to our progress, but to our united and determined
effort to take a prominent part in all that means the advancement of mankind and the prosperity
of the whole world. We owe that which we are at present to the devotion and heroism of the
men of the past, and to protect and guard the inheritance which has come to us should be our
aim. To be broad and conservative in our conception of our duties and responsibilities should
be our purpose. To instill into the minds of our youth a determination to meet every question
with true American courage should be our object. Every effort that makes for the good of humanity
is a fitting tribute to that national policy which has taught us that there is no responsibility
too great for our citizens to bear, and that in the onward progress of civilization America
recognizes her duty and will not fail in its performance."

At the conclusion of the Governor's address the benediction was pronounced by the Rev. W. W.
Boyd, after which Governor Odell held a public reception, shaking hands with several hundred
people, who pressed forward to greet him. During the progress of the reception Mr. S. H. Grover,
of New York city, rendered an organ recital. Luncheon was served the Governor and party in
the offices of the Commission, and the afternoon was devoted to sight seeing.

THE EVENING RECEPTION

In the evening was held the grand reception and ball in honor of Governor and Mrs. Odell. Six
thousand invitations had been issued for the function, those invited including the President
of the United States and his Cabinet, judges of the United States Supreme Court, United States
army and navy officers, governors of all the states, New York State officers, members of the
New York State Legislature, judges of the Court of Appeals and Appellate Division and Supreme
Court, Exposition officials, members of the National Commission, members of State and Foreign
Commissions, the Board of Lady Managers and many prominent citizens of the Empire State and
St. Louis. In spite of the fact that the day assigned to the State of New York, a year before
by the Exposition Company, fell upon the date of the greatest festival of all the year in St.
Louis, viz., The Veiled Prophets' ball, which is similar to the Mardi Gras festival at New
Orleans, it did not affect the attendance at the reception in the least, many people attending
both functions. Throughout the evening the capacity of the building was taxed to the utmost
by those who came to enjoy New York's proverbial hospitality.

The exterior of the building and the grounds were illuminated on a lavish scale by the Pain
Pyrotechnic Company, of New York city. The entire building was outlined by means of thousands
of fairy lamps, and many strings of Japanese lanterns were festooned from the roof line to
the veranda balustrade. Fairy lamps were used in profusion about the grounds, forming unique
figures, and at various points spelled the words "New York." At no other function during the
entire Exposition were such elaborate illuminations attempted on the part of any state commission.
The interior decorations consisted of the National and Exposition colors, gracefully wound
here and there about the pillars, supplemented by festoons of smilax, which was used in profusion
in the entrance hallway. Special music for the event was furnished by Fancuilli's band, of
New York city, and Schoen's orchestra, of St. Louis, which were stationed respectively in the
south and north galleries of the grand entrance hall.

THE RECEIVING PARTY

The receiving line was stationed at the foot of the grand staircase, the guests entering at
the south portal of the building and approaching through the reception rooms.

Receiving with the Governor and Mrs. Odell were Mrs. Norman E. Mack, Colonel and Mrs. Edward
Lyman Bill, Mr. and Mrs. John C. Woodbury, Mr. and Mrs. Frank S. McGraw, Mr. Frederick R. Green,
Mrs. Daniel Manning, Hon. S. Frederick Nixon, Mrs. Dore Lyon and Hon. James T. Rogers. The
guests were presented to the Governor by Major Harrison K. Bird, his military secretary, two
lines of United States marines guarding the approach to the receiving party. The Governor's
military staff, resplendent in vari-colored uniforms, formed a line directly in front of the
receiving party, and, while adding eclat to the occasion, prevented any crowding about the
receiving line.

Supper was served at eleven o'clock at small tables upon the verandas. The following was the menu:

  RADISHES         CELERY        OLIVES
      SALTED ALMONDS      BONBONS
OYSTERS A LA PAULETTE      CHICKEN SALAD
           ASSORTED SANDWICHES
      ICE CREAM        PETIT FOURS
LEMONADE         COFFEE      CLARET PUNCH

Dancing began at ten o'clock and continued until the wee sma' hours.

CONCLUDING FUNCTION

The final event of State week was a breakfast given by the State Commission on Wednesday noon
in honor of Governor and Mrs. Odell, and Mrs. Daniel Manning, President of the Board of Lady
Managers. The breakfast was perfectly informal, no set addresses being delivered.

The functions of the entire period were voted by one and all to have been most successful in
every respect, and New York again proved its right to the title of a most gracious and generous
host.

CHAPTER VII

Brooklyn Day

One of the last special days to be observed during the Exposition was Brooklyn Day, the exercises
of which were held on November fifteenth. As one of the speakers on the occasion aptly said,
it was the only day throughout the Exposition period which was formally set apart by the Exposition
management in honor of a political division less than a municipality. A special train bearing
a large delegation of representative Brooklynites arrived in St. Louis Monday, November fourteenth.
Although the date was late in the season, the weather was ideal, and everything was done for
the pleasure and comfort of the visitors. The ceremonies were divided between the New York
State building and the New York City building, upon the Model street, and consisted of exercises
at 11:30 A.M., followed by a luncheon at one o'clock at the New York State building, and a
reception at the New York City building from eight to ten in the evening.

THE PROGRAM

The program for the formal exercises in the New York State building was as follows

  Address of welcome, William Berri, Vice-President, New York State
      Commission

  Address, Hon. J. Edward Swanstrom, on behalf of the Committee of One
      Hundred

  Permanent Chairman, Colonel William Hester, president of the Brooklyn
      Eagle

  Response, Major Peter J. Collins

  Address, Hon. Rolla Wells, Mayor of St. Louis

  Response, Hon. Charles A. Schieren, ex-mayor of Brooklyn

  Oration, Hon. Thomas P. Peters, editor of the Brooklyn Times

  Aeolian organ recital

Promptly at 11:30 A. M. the assemblage was called to order by Vice-President William Berri,
who, in behalf of the State Commission, extended a cordial welcome to all present. He then
called upon J. Edward Swanstrom, who made brief remarks in behalf of the Committee of One Hundred.

At the conclusion of Mr. Swanstrom's remarks, Colonel William Hester was installed as permanent
chairman. Upon taking the chair Colonel Hester said:

COLONEL HESTER'S REMARKS

"I am very sensible of the honor conferred upon me, but will be unable to fulfill the duties,
except in a most perfunctory way. It is very much to be regretted that the Honorable Martin
W. Littleton is not able to be with us to-day. As the official head of the government of the
borough, he was to have presided on this occasion. In his absence Major Peter J. Collins, who
was at the head of an important department, will respond for his chief. I now introduce to
you Major Collins."

SPEECH OF MAJOR COLLINS

"Your Honor, Mr. Francis, and ladies and gentlemen: In responding as the representative of
the administration of the borough of Brooklyn, I feel that you must realize the unenviable
position I occupy of appearing on such brief notice and of acting as the mouthpiece of our
president, the Hon. Martin W. Littleton. Mr. Littleton instructs me to convey his most sincere
regrets to your honor, to Mr. Francis and to the ladies and gentlemen constituting the Committee
of One Hundred, on his enforced absence on this occasion. As some of you are aware, there has
been an election in this land. Previous to this election there was carried on what some of
us supposed was a political campaign. This campaign engaged the interest of every worthy citizen
and public and private affairs of business have been neglected to some extent as a consequence.
In the business of the borough Mr. Littleton is confronted with a vast accumulation of matters
of greatest importance to Brooklyn, both in the local work and in the various boards and committee
meetings in Manhattan, and he has reluctantly concluded that his absence from the city at this
time would amount to an almost criminal neglect of his duty. He asks me to convey to you the
congratulations and good wishes of the many thousands of our people who are unable to be with
us to-day. Brooklyn has had a deep sympathy with your fair city in this tremendous enterprise,
and has watched with keen interest and satisfaction your success in overcoming the many difficulties
that lay in your way. Brooklyn herself has awakened from her sleep of almost ten years, and
the sound of the hammer and the saw and the ring of the trowel are heard on every hand. Owing
to the enterprise, energy and self-sacrificing efforts of many of the men who are with us to-day,
she is astonishing the country by the wonderful increase in population. Brooklyn can no longer
be regarded as the bedroom of Manhattan, for Manhattan is rapidly becoming only the workshop
of Brooklyn; we can no longer be regarded as the little brother of Manhattan, for we are rapidly
becoming a very big brother. Consequently, ladies and gentlemen of St. Louis, we feel qualified
to appreciate the satisfaction and joy you may justly feel in this your hour of triumph, and
we extend to you the right hand of fellowship and congratulate you on this wonderful creation
of yours, that must go down in history as the greatest exposition in the history of mankind."

Mayor Wells was unavoidably detained by an important engagement. The Chairman then introduced
Mr. Schieren, and in doing so said:

"This is no fairy story, yet I will commence it that way. Once upon a time we of Brooklyn had
a city all to ourselves. We were proud of our city and very desirous that it should be well
governed, and were careful in the selection of men to fill its highest office, and thus it
came to pass that one of our most successful efforts in that direction was the choice for mayor
of our city of the gentleman whom I shall now present to you, Ex-Mayor Charles A. Schieren."

Mr. Schieren was warmly received and spoke as follows:

ADDRESS OF EX-MAYOR SCHIEREN

"In the name of the Brooklyn delegation I thank you sincerely for your cordial greeting and
the hearty welcome extended to us. We fully appreciate your kind hospitality. We have come
here to enjoy this glorious Exposition which already has attained such a great fame. Its magnificence
and grandeur, both as to the magnitude of its buildings and their exhibits, is a surprise to
every visitor. You may be proud of your achievements.

"This Exposition seems to exceed all others held in this country, and in many respects those
held in the world.

"The Centennial Exposition of Philadelphia, commemorating the foundation of our government,
gave our people the first idea of the extent and scope of our labor-saving machinery and the
advance made in the manufacture of our American goods. It stimulated the manufacturing interests
in our country.

"The Columbian Exposition at Chicago commemorated the discovery of America. It was noted for
its excellent foreign exhibits. It gave our people an opportunity to compare the products of
America with those of other nations. The so-called White City had a peculiar charm and made
a deep impression upon every one. It seemed a perfect dream, ever to be remembered. People
declared that it could not be excelled, but hardly a decade has passed when the enterprising,
energetic citizens of the commercial metropolis of the great southwest arranged another World's
Fair to commemorate the historical events of the famous Louisiana purchase, even upon a larger
scale and overshadowing all others in this country. We may exclaim justly--Will there ever
be another Exposition greater and more important than the one just about to close?

"We seem to marvel at nothing in this progressive age. We always wonder what other marvellous
inventions may be in store for us to necessitate another Exposition upon a gigantic scale,
to be held somewhere in this country. Perhaps within another decade, when the Isthmian canal
is finished, the golden stream which will connect the waters of the Pacific and Atlantic oceans,
we may celebrate at the national capital city the greatest event of the twentieth century,
bringing to the commerce of the world peace and plenty. At the same time we may hope to celebrate
the establishment of our American merchant marine, the one thing needed to carry our American
products and goods into the harbors of the world, floating the Stars and Stripes now so seldom
witnessed upon the ocean vessels. This country seems to forge ahead at a rapid pace, not only
in its material wealth, but in everything that tends to the happiness of our people, even the
humblest citizens sharing in the general prosperity. Every section has cause to rejoice--the
South with its cotton, the North with its financial resources, the West with its farm products,
the East with its industries, all seem to participate in the general welfare of the country.
In conclusion let me thank you again for the courtesy extended to our people, and we wish you
great success in this stupendous enterprise."

At the conclusion of Mr. Schieren's remarks the presiding officer said: "For many years the
Brooklyn Times was owned and edited by the late Mr. Bernard Peters. He was a man of strict
integrity, high moral ideals, and a forceful writer. The editorial chair of the Times is now
occupied by his son, Thomas P. Peters, a worthy son of a worthy sire. Ladies and gentlemen,
I take pleasure in introducing to you the orator of the day, Mr. Thomas P. Peters."

Mr. Peters was greeted with hearty applause as he arose. His oration in part follows:

ORATION OF MR. PETERS

"To speak a word for Brooklyn at this time, I was not the first choice of the Committee of
Arrangements. Unanimously that honor was assigned to one of Brooklyn's favorite sons. But sickness
of a most serious nature overtook him only a few days ago, and after a brief illness, he was
early last Wednesday morning called to his final rest. Although upon pleasure bent, our hearts
are sorrowful because of this loss to Brooklyn.

"Joseph C. Hendrix had been prominent in Brooklyn life a quarter of a century, prominent enough
to have been nominated at one time for mayor of the old city by one of the great parties. He
served Brooklyn for many years as president of its board of education; was its postmaster,
and also represented one of its districts in the halls of Congress. Of recent years he had
withdrawn from public life and devoted himself to the financial world. There he soon assumed
a commanding position as bank president, and his organizing abilities were constantly in demand.
He was one of Brooklyn's great men, and I regret that he is not here to-day to fill the position
for which he was so well fitted. Our borough is rightly in deep bereavement because of the
taking off of this, a faithful servant.

"This party of Brooklynites has come over 1,000 miles to celebrate at this magnificent exposition
a day set apart for itself. We come not from a sovereign State. Neither do we come from an
independent city. We come from but part of a great city. I will venture to claim that Brooklyn
Day at the St. Louis Exposition will be the only day set apart for any municipal body holding
a place by law of less dignity than that of a city. Why, then, does Brooklyn send us out to
make her name known here and to extend her greetings to St. Louis? Because for years Brooklyn
was a city, and with more independent citizens to the total population than were to be found
in any other part of the known world, and she is still true to her history. She had then a
spirit that was the very personification of municipal patriotism. She could tear down a dishonest
political rascal with greater celerity than any other city in the land. She kept her two great
parties equally balanced; each a foil to the other, each a stimulant to the other for good
government, and upon the average she enjoyed better service than American cities usually obtain.

"It is almost seven years since Brooklyn lost her cityhood. During that time she has been a
dependent borough within the great city of New York. Many thought that when that transition
took place Brooklyn would lose her old-time spirit, her pride would be humbled and she would
sink into the slough of despair, but we are here to-day to make known to these United States
that Brooklyn's old-time courage is as high, her spirit is as heavily charged with municipal
energy and her pride is the same pride as of old.

"Brooklyn is a peculiar community. She differs from all others. The wits have long fed upon
her. General Horace Porter has called her a city of 4,000,000, 1,000,000 of whom are alive.
Another has said that there are two places to which every dead New Yorker goes, either to heaven
or to hades and to Brooklyn. He may escape one or the other of the two former. He cannot escape
the latter. Simeon Ford has declared that Brooklyn lies midway between the quick and the dead,
midway between reckless, extravagant and wicked old New York and sober, sombre and serene Greenwood.
McKinley ran for President upon the issue of the full dinner pail. The students of Princeton
College recently asserted that Roosevelt was running upon the issue of a full baby carriage.
The President must have secured his inspiration from the manner in which the cartoonists always
pictured the Brooklyn man, behind the perambulator. We ourselves recognize that Brooklyn is
peculiar and unusual. Her like is not known to the world. That fact is proved to an extent
by my former assertion, that Brooklyn is the only community without municipal rank that will
have here a day of her own. The fact that we are here in body and that she is here in spirit
clearly shows that the old courage is still in her heart. Brooklyn may be only a borough, she
may be only an 'abutment for bridges,' as President Littlejohn once feared she would become,
but she is to-day the same independent Brooklyn she was back in her cityhood, and she is as
proud of the things that make her great as many of the cities of the things that make them
merely flashy.

"Her former spirit lives; it lives because since consolidation Brooklyn has assumed a commanding
place in the councils of the greater city. Brooklyn has chosen as her three borough presidents
men of force, who have been recognized as leaders by all the boroughs. At first the borough
government was a mockery of a government. It was only a government in name. Our first president,
Edward M. Grout, chafed under its restraint. He demanded that the boroughs be allowed a voice
in city affairs, and that local improvements be given into the charge of borough officials.
To him the State Legislature listened, and his successor in that office found himself with
something beside the shadow of power, and his administration was a marvel to Brooklyn in what
it achieved. Other boroughs looked on in envy, while J. Edward Swanstrom set a pace so rapid
that its like will be difficult to produce. Our first president, Mr. Grout, became the comptroller
in the second administration of the greater city. The comptrollership of New York city is as
important as that of Secretary of the United States Treasury. Brooklyn was then and is yet
the dominant force in the life of the metropolis. The entire city recognized Mr. Grout to be
a man acquainted with even the minutest details of the city's government. Brooklyn's place
at the table of the board of estimate was a commanding one with Swanstrom and Grout in their
seats, and to-day her representation there is equally good. Mr. Grout is still there. In the
place of Mr. Swanstrom sits Mr. Martin W. Littleton, and by him the name of Brooklyn has been
made famous from ocean to ocean, and throughout the entire South, for in him Brooklyn has a
mouthpiece that thrills, and through him she speaks with a tongue of eloquence.

"Since consolidation Brooklyn has been the second borough in point of population and of wealth,
but in statesmanship, in oratory and in achievement she has stood pre-eminent. And while many
believed that after consolidation she would lose her independent spirit, she has rather increased
her old pride in herself, and this pride has been fostered and strengthened because of the
worthy sons who have represented her in the government of the great city of New York, two of
whom we have brought with us, that St. Louis, at times herself deceived by those she trusted,
may look upon their like for once at least. Loyal to Brooklyn have been Grout, Swanstrom and
Littleton, and thus inspired, has Brooklyn proved loyal to herself and faithful to her traditions.

"Brooklyn is a gigantic borough. She is three times as large as Buffalo, the home of the Pan-American
Exposition. She is twice as large as St. Louis, the home of the present Exposition. Brooklyn
territorially is large enough and properly adapted to hold a population of 7,000,000, and still
remain less congested than the present borough of Manhattan. Brooklyn is devoid of many of
the characteristics that mark other great cities. She is almost totally lacking in hotel life.
A city of one-tenth her population would have more hotels. But municipal greatness never rested
upon hotel life. It breeds corpulence, not courage. It discourages the rearing of children,
a thriving industry in Brooklyn. Brooklyn has not the wealth in proportion to her size that
she should have. Brooklyn sat for long years under the shadow of old New York, contributing
to the wealth of the metropolis, but obtaining nothing in return. Her population contributed
to the real estate values upon Manhattan island. Her factories and forges made many of the
fortunes that were spent across the East river. Only since consolidation have we received any
dividends upon that ever increasing investment. We now pay $14,000,000 into the city treasury
and take $17,000,000 out annually. Brooklyn has often been described as the bedroom of old
New York. The description was apt, for Brooklyn has always been a city of homes, a city of
those of moderate means, a city of respectability. Brooklyn has never been able to boast of
her wealth, as other cities, nor has she had to blush for her poverty and depravity as some
other cities have.

"She has, however, been able to vaunt herself in the matter of those things which by nature
are companions of the home. She has always been noted for her great churches, and has had the
finest pulpit orators of the day, and now she is as strong in that direction as she ever was
in the past. Her private schools have been known far and wide, while so long as she controlled
her public schools, they, too, stood extremely high. Since consolidation they have fallen somewhat
behind the march. In dividing government among the boroughs, Mr. Grout achieved much. Where
the greatest good was done was where centralization was left with the least sway. In school
matters centralization rules absolutely, and to that extent the schools have been forcibly
drawn away from the people, and the development has lain in the direction of complexity of
educational system, rather than in that of perfecting the children in the rudiments of scholarship.
Of late years we have taught our boys how to sew, even if we did neglect their spelling. This
increases the number of special teachers, adds to the city's bills, but enables the school
superintendents to read splendid reports of new and special courses when they attend pedagogic
conventions. Your Exposition loaded New York's educational authorities with medals and prizes
and honorable mentions. I would not censure you for this. No men ever worked harder for such
honors. The trouble is they work too hard over frills and neglect the essentials. Were your
judges to-day to hold an examination among our grammar scholars upon the three subjects, reading,
writing and arithmetic, I am inclined to believe that you would send hurry orders for the return
of many of those prizes.

"In school matters Brooklyn is at a loss no further than are the other boroughs of the greater
city. She is at a loss because Mr. Grout's advice was not taken. In short, we so highly prize
our sewers, our streets and our pavements that we directed that they be given directly into
our own charge and under our own borough president, and then we held our children in such light
esteem that we surrendered them into the keeping of a centralized board of education, which
is in turn in the keeping of the board of superintendents, in which body Brooklyn has but a
small voice. It has reminded me of those people who personally care for their own dogs and
horses and leave their children to servants and hired tutors. The system has been wrong. The
wrong system has been made top-heavy. The results have been poor.

"Brooklyn has developed the home life of America to a greater extent than any other city has
done. She has few palaces. She has few hovels. She has a great army of American mothers and
fathers that are bringing up the next generation of men and women, and she is rearing them
in thousands of comfortable homes, where body develops with mind and where the spiritual welfare
is an important factor.

"Brooklyn has a park system of which she is proud to-day, and of which she will grow prouder.
In Prospect Park she has a jewel, in the very heart of the community. In Forest Park she has
a promise of great future development. That new park lies upon high ground overlooking a vast
section of the borough and exhibiting to the eye the bay of Jamaica and the ocean beyond. Forest
Park is richly endowed by nature, and it will in the days to come be in beauty above either
Prospect or Central. Brooklyn has great driveways leading to the ocean along her harbor front
and out into Long Island, and she has laid out many small parks and is still engaged upon that
work.

"In library matters Brooklyn to-day is well supplied. The system is most extensive and has
been rapidly developed. It is another indication of what can be done when a department is decentralized.
The Brooklyn Public Library is under the control of Brooklyn men. The board of estimate makes
it an annual allowance. Andrew Carnegie gave to Brooklyn $1,600,000 for library construction.
With that money twenty branch libraries are to be erected in time. Five are up; one is in operation.
To-day there are over twenty branch libraries; most of them are in rented quarters, and they
circulate over one million books a year among the people.

"As another indication of the life of Brooklyn brief reference should be made to the Institute
of Arts and Sciences, the great college of those beyond school years. It has been referred
to as the intellectual bargain counter of Brooklyn. It offers at very moderate prices literary,
historical, musical instruction and entertainment and lectures in all the sciences. It is well
supported, and the city is building it a central building that will be the Mecca of the ambitious
and the cultured. No other city in the land supports such an institution, and it is a great
credit to us.

"Brooklyn's spirit is due in a great measure to the nature of the press that caters to her.
Her newspapers are intensely local in character. They give to her institutions such support
as is not given to the institutions of any other city in the United States. It is this that
has encouraged an intelligent and independent breadth of mind in Brooklyn. She keeps alive
the old New England custom of a close watch over her government and of a constant discussion
of all public questions. Englishmen are noted for their unremitting guard of their personal
rights. They are not to be compared in this with Brooklynites who, in spite of a callous railroad
system, still persist in demanding their rights.

"Her press has called into being all over Brooklyn numerous boards of trade and taxpayers'
associations, and they, encouraged by the attention given to them, devote themselves to their
neighborhoods. Edmund Burke referred to the journalists as a fourth estate. Aptly might we
regard these trade boards as a second government. Highly are they respected. Many reforms,
especially in transportation matters, have they achieved.

"I have outlined to you some of the features of Brooklyn life. She is in truth the place where
the home life of Greater New York is developed, where it may be seen in its simple beauty adorned
with its rugged virtue. I have not boasted of her rich men, but of her intellectual gifts;
not of her social leaders, but of her clear-minded men and women; not of her wealth, but of
her mental attainments. It is from such a community that we come to-day to write upon your
visitors' book the name of Brooklyn. In our way we are as proud of our homes as was the old
Roman matron of her two sons, although we may be as poorly decked with tawdry jewels as she
was. We are as proud of our independence in politics as Philadelphia should be ashamed of her
regularity. Boston is credited with being the Athens of America. Brooklyn deserves the title,
but would leave to Boston her pedantic ways. We are sincere in our speech and simple in our
faith, and when we say we rejoice in St. Louis' success, are glad to be here and are honored
in having a day set aside for us, we but echo the sentiments that our hearts suggest."

At the conclusion of the oration the Chairman introduced Henry Sanger Snow, LL.D., who read
the following original poem:

POEM OF DR. SNOW

                       I

  Hail! city of the West, from ocean's strand
    Afar we bring thee greeting. At thy gate,
  Wide-thrown in welcome, gathered nations stand
    And praise the deed ye grandly celebrate!
  The imperial star that rose from eastern seas,
    Marking the new-born nation in the West,
  Rides in thy zenith now--by slow degrees
    The march of Empire takes its westward quest--
    And over scene more fair, sure star could never rest!

                      II

  Worthy thy festival of that high deed--
    Louisiana's treaty--greatest act
  Of all that came from our great Jefferson:
    Nor king nor statesman sealed a nobler pact!
  And worthy the deed of this fair festival,
    When the young land whose life had scarce begun,
  With lofty courage doubt could ne'er appall,
    In the one act a finer victory won
    Than war in all her scarlet glory e'er hath done!

                      III

  An hundred years have passed--what wonders wrought
    Along the Mississippi's mighty stream!
  The changes time's transforming wand hath brought
    Seem but the unreal visions of a dream!
  Where stretched in vast expanse to western sea
    The pathless forest and the trackless plain,
  Great States and teeming millions soon should be,
    And orchards fair and fields of waving grain
    And every art of peace through that broad land should reign.

                      IV

  Hail to the Statesman whose far-seeing eyes
    Saw in the germ the nation that should be,
  Saw how a mighty empire should arise
    And span the continent from sea to sea,
  And building for the future, led the way
    With prescience and high courage, daring fate,
  An emperor's domain in a single day
    Bought for a purse of gold! a vast estate,
    From Europe's despot gained--to Freedom consecrate!

                      V

  Conquest of Peace! on thy triumphal day
    No mourning captives, chained to victor's car,
  Nor spoil of war, nor bloodshed marked thy way,
    Nor hate, nor wrong did thy escutcheon mar!
  No throng of armed hosts thy mountains crossed.
    Thy forests echoed to no battle cry,
  No glory gained with nation's honor lost,
    Nor victor's plaudit, echoed with a sigh.
    Louisiana won--nor any doomed to die!

                     VI

  Conquest of Peace! No Alsace here doth kneel,
    And Lorraine, scarred with unforgotten scar;
  No riven Poland, 'neath the warrior's heel,
    Spoil of the victor from the field of war.
  The sun that shines thy boundless plains along
    Lights not the smallest hamlet but is free;
  The winds that sweep thy mountains bear no song
    Save that the patriot sings--where Liberty
    And Peace and Law now are, and evermore shall be!

                    VII

  So be it ever, through the coming age
    Our nation's destiny shall be fulfilled,
  Not by the tears that greed or passion wage,
    Not by the blood of foes or brethren spilled!
  But in the wiser and the nobler way
    The patriot Statesman taught us, when of yore
  His victory of Peace in one brief day
    Won glory greater than a year of war!
    So may it be, dear land, with thee for evermore!

At the conclusion of the exercises the benediction was pronounced by the Reverend Doctor Wintner,
of Brooklyn, New York, in the following words:

"May the Lord our God, Creator of the universe and Father of mankind, bless all those in our
home city afar off, and also those near here, and may He look down upon you in His kindness
and grace, and grant you peace forevermore. Amen."

THE LUNCHEON

Immediately after the formal exercises, the delegation were guests of the State Commission
at luncheon, at which Commissioner William Berri presided. Covers were laid for about 200.
At the conclusion of the luncheon toasts were responded to by several. The program of remarks
follows:

  "A Welcome to the Fair,"
        Honorable David R. Francis, President of the Louisiana
        Purchase Exposition

  "The Old Brooklynites,"
        Ex-Senator Stephen M. Griswold
        "'Tis the sunset of life gives us mystical lore."

  "Brooklyn of the Future"
        Dr. Henry Sanger Snow
        "There is a fascination in recollections of the past and
        hopes for the future."

  "Brooklyn Women"
        Judge Hiram R. Steele
        "Woman! Blest partner of our joys and woes."

THE COMMITTEES

The local Brooklyn committee was as follows: President, Martin W. Littleton; Secretary, John
B. Creighton.

Executive Committee: Herbert F. Gunnison, Robert W. Haff, Timothy L. Woodruff, Julian D. Fairchild,
J. Edward Swanstrom, S.F. Rothschild, James J. McCabe, Frank E. O'Reilly, John N. Harman and
Thomas P. Peters.

Entertainment Committee: Thomas P. Peters, James J. McCabe, James McLeer, Robert W. Haff and
Timothy L. Woodruff.

Program Committee: J. Edward Swanstrom, Julian D. Fairchild and S.F. Rothschild.

Transportation Committee: Herbert F. Gunnison, Frank E. O'Reilly and William Berri.

THE EVENING RECEPTION

The New York City building on the Model street, in which the evening reception was held, was
elaborately decorated with colored lights, the word "Brooklyn" appearing in fairy lamps over
the main doorway. Within a wealth of palms and smilax was used.

The reception took place between eight and ten and was attended by the Brooklyn delegation,
Exposition officials, State and national representatives and many invited guests. An orchestra
furnished music and throughout the evening a buffet luncheon was served. The receiving line
consisted of Thomas W. Hynes, Commissioner for New York city, and Mrs. Hynes; Vice-President
Berri, of the State Commission, and Mrs. Berri; Colonel William Hester; Mr. and Mrs. J. Edward
Swanstrom; Mr. and Mrs. R.W. Haff; Mr. and Mrs. Thomas P. Peters; Mr. John B. Creighton; Mr.
and Mrs. Clarence W. Seamans; Dr. and Mrs. Henry Sanger Snow; Mr. and Mrs. Hiram R. Steele;
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Griswold; Mr. and Mrs. J. Adolph Mollenhauer; Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Raymond;
Mr. Herbert F. Gunnison.

The exercises of the day were marked by an enthusiasm which invariably characterizes the undertakings
of Brooklynites, and the large delegation which had journeyed all the way from home to spend
four short days at the Fair felt more than repaid for the journey.

CHAPTER VIII

Thanksgiving Day

The fact that the Exposition did not close until December first compelled all employees to
remain in St. Louis Thanksgiving Day; that day which, of all others, generally marks a family
gathering. The Commission thoughtfully extended an invitation to all of its employees and their
families in St. Louis to be their guests at Thanksgiving dinner in the State building. The
number included about sixty-five people, every attache who was in town accepting the invitation.

The official colony of the Empire State at the great Exposition assembled at the State building
at one o'clock. All were cordially greeted by Vice-President Berri, Mrs. Berri and Mrs. Norman
E. Mack. Before sitting down to dinner a group picture was taken on the front steps of the
building, a copy of which was subsequently presented by the Commission to each employee.

The table was set in the grand hall and was heavily laden with products of the State of New
York. Owing to the approaching close of the Exposition, the agricultural and horticultural
exhibits were heavily drawn upon. Great heaps of New York's superlative fruit and prize vegetables
were used in decorating the table. Messrs. Bayno & Pindat served a tempting menu, features
of which were those dishes always associated with Thanksgiving Day--roast turkey and pumpkin
pie. A spirit of hearty good fellowship pervaded the entire occasion, and each one vied with
his neighbor in adding to the total of the entertainment.

Remarks were made between the courses, and early in the event Vice-President Berri, who presided,
arose and, after complimenting every one present on behalf of the Commission for the part they
had taken in contributing to New York's success at the Fair, proceeded in a most happy vein
and said in part, as follows:

REMARKS BY MR. BERRI

"We should be thankful way down deep in our hearts that we are citizens of such a great country--the
United States of America. When you think of its wonderful struggle for years and know that
to-day it is at the forefront of progress among the nations of the earth should we not be thankful
that we are a part of it? We should be thankful that we have such a great President--a man
respected by all nations. Republicans should be thankful that they won such a great victory
at the polls, and Democrats should be thankful that the Republicans give them such good government.

"The married men here should be thankful that they have such good wives, and the wives that
they have such good husbands; the unmarried men that they have in the future such a vista of
happiness that is to come to them, and the young ladies should be thankful that there are so
many young men around. There is no way to view this occasion but with a thanksgiving spirit,
and nothing pleases me more than to be with you to-day. There has been no feature of our Fair
at any time, in all of its various functions we have had, that gives me such great pleasure
as to preside at this gathering. It is the first time we have been all brought together, and,
while the hours of the Fair are numbered, I am sure that every one will go home never forgetting
the pleasant days they have had at the great Exposition at St. Louis in the year nineteen hundred
and four."

He then called upon Mrs. Norman E. Mack, the only other member of the Commission present. Mrs.
Mack was warmly applauded and said:

RESPONSE BY MRS. MACK

"It gives me great pleasure to be able to take my Thanksgiving dinner to-day with so many who
have done so much for the glory of New York at this Exposition. I particularly wish to compliment
those of our own building who have always been so courteous and nice to me, and by so doing
have aided the New York Commission in making the New York State building the social center
of the Exposition." Others present were called upon and made appropriate remarks, and the Pikers'
Club, an organization composed of attaches of the building, furnished the musical part of the
entertainment.

PRESENTATION TO SECRETARY BALL

Vice-President Berri then presented Mr. Charles A. Ball, Secretary and Chief Executive Officer
of the Commission, with a complete fishing outfit in behalf of all of the employees of the
New York State Commission. Mr. Ball enjoys a wide reputation as an expert with the rod. In
his remarks Mr. Berri said that it had never been demonstrated that the Secretary had ever
returned with any fish, and expressed the hope that with such a perfect equipment some tangible
results might be shown. He also humorously referred to the fact that in the fire which a short
time before had threatened the destruction of the State building, Mr. Ball's first thought
had been for the safety of his fishing reels. The presentation was a complete surprise to the
Secretary, who feelingly expressed his deep appreciation of the thoughtfulness of his staff
in making him a present which he should treasure as long as he lived. He also expressed his
gratitude to all of the employees of the Commission for their loyal support, which had meant
so much in the successful participation of New York at the greatest Fair the world ever knew.
He closed with laudatory remarks concerning the Commission, and the wisdom and thoroughness
which had characterized its work.

In the course of her remarks Mrs. Lyon read the following original poem:

POEM BY MRS. LYON

  Like ships upon the changing sea of life,
    Unknowing and unknown until we met,
  We've sailed awhile together, and no strife
    Has marred our joy, nor brought a faint regret.

  O'er this composite family of ours,
    Begotten from each corner of our State,
  Has breathed a peaceful spirit, and the hours
    Have sped on wings from early dawn till late.

  'Tis something to have met each other here,
    And found in each some trait to be admired,
  And felt the world replete with joy and cheer,
    And friendship still the thing to be desired.

  The tiny corners that we once possessed
    By gentle contact have been rubbed away,
  And words that might have hurt have been suppressed,
    And peacefully we hail this Festive Day.

  The time when we must part comes on apace,
    And soon we'll wend along our various ways,
  Then mem'ry's realm will crowded be for space
    To welcome friends of Exposition days.

  To name each one and strive to pay the debt
    We owe, of deepest gratitude and praise
  In words, would take me many hours yet,
    And possibly run over into days.

  And--after all, when all is said and done,
    It only means we've met--to live--to part.
  Then here's my wish--That we have just begun
    A friendship which may blossom in each heart.

LANTERN SLIDES

At the conclusion of the remarks a series of lantern slides illustrating some of the most attractive
natural features of the Empire State were shown, the slides being a part of the exhibit in
education. The entertainment concluded with informal dancing, music for the same being furnished
by an orchestra which was in attendance. The assemblage dispersed with three rousing cheers
for the Empire State and for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission of the State of New York.

CHAPTER IX

Educational Exhibit and Schedule of Awards

THE EDUCATIONAL EXHIBIT

BY DELANCEY M. ELLIS

Director of Education and Social Economy

The movement for an educational exhibit of the State of New York at St. Louis was inaugurated
at a meeting of the State Teachers' Association, held at Saratoga in July, 1902, at which a
resolution was offered inviting the various educational associations of the State to co-operate
with the above association in promoting an exhibit commensurate with the State's educational
importance. An immediate response was forthcoming.

THE CONFERENCE COMMITTEE

Ten powerful educational associations and the two State administrative departments (since merged
into the Department of Education) each sent a delegate to a central committee, which took the
name of "Conference Committee," and consisted of Chairman, Myron T. Scudder, principal State
Normal School, New Paltz, representing the Normal Principals' Council; Secretary, Henry L.
Taylor, representing the University of the State of New York; A. M. Wright, Second Deputy Superintendent
of Public Instruction, representing the Department of Public Instruction; F. D. Boynton, superintendent
of schools, Ithaca, representing the State Teachers' Association; Andrew W. Edson, associate
superintendent of schools, city of New York, representing the Council of School Superintendents;
Calvin W. Edwards, president Board of Education, Albany, representing the Association of School
Boards; F. S. Fosdick, principal Masten Park High School, Buffalo, representing the Associated
Academic Principals; George H. Walden, principal Grammar School No. 10, Rochester, representing
the Council of Grammar School Principals; H. J. Schmitz, acting principal State Normal School,
Geneseo, representing the Science Teachers' Association; A. C. Hill, Department of Public Instruction,
representing the Training Teachers' Conference; Erwin B. Whitney, school commissioner, first
district, Broome county, representing the School Commissioners and Superintendents' Association.

This Committee organized as above in October, 1902, and appointed a subcommittee to appear
before the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission and request an adequate appropriation and
the appointment of a director to carry on the work.

APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR

At the Meeting of the Commission held June 10, 1903, DeLancey M. Ellis, of Rochester, was appointed
director, and the sum of $20,000 was set aside for the preparation of the educational exhibit.
Offices were immediately opened at 46 Elwood building, Rochester, N. Y., and the work of collecting
and preparing the exhibit material was begun. As the schools were just about to close for the
summer holidays but little could be accomplished, and none of the work of the school year 1902-1903
could be procured. It is to be regretted that time was not allowed to procure an exhibit of
work covering an entire school year. That which covers a shorter period is of necessity fragmentary
and hardly conveys clearly an idea of the quality or scope of the work being done in a given
institution.

ADVISORY COMMITTEE

The Conference Committee was invited to retain its organization and to take the name of "Advisory
Committee," to co-operate with and assist the director, the members of the committee to serve
without compensation, but necessary expenses while in discharge of their duties to be paid
from the appropriation for the exhibit.

It would be hard to overestimate the services performed by this committee. Each member took
a hearty interest in the work in hand and freely gave of his time and advice in carrying the
work forward to a successful conclusion. Any lack of interest or enthusiasm on the part of
the members of a given association was quickly dispelled by a personal appeal to its members
from its representative upon the committee. In this way the interest was most genuine and general
throughout the State, and in no way could the sentiment of educational interests be more clearly
crystallized than in a meeting of this committee, and to them is due the thanks of the Commission,
as well as the thanks of the educational forces of the State of New York for their unselfish
efforts and wise counsel, which in so large a way was responsible for the success of the educational
exhibit.

PLANS PRESENTED BEFORE EDUCATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS

The director was invited to present the plans for the exhibit at the following educational
meetings during the year 1903: University Convocation, at Albany, in June; State Teachers'
Association, at Cliff Haven, in July; School Commissioners and Superintendents, at Watkins,
in September; Association of Superintendents, which met in conjunction with the Massachusetts
Association of Superintendents, at Boston, in October, and Associated Academic Principals,
at Syracuse in December. The subject was cordially received, and a general effort was made
throughout the field of education in the Empire State to prepare an exhibit which would surpass
any that had ever been gathered before. By means of circulars, several of which were sent broadcast
throughout the State, full instructions were given to local authorities as to the preparation
of the work, amount of material desired and the proposed plan of arrangement. Throughout the
fall and winter the director visited many cities of the State, consulted with exhibitors as
to the most attractive way of preparing material, and held himself in readiness to assist all
who experienced any difficulty in the preparation of their exhibits. The exhibit material was
collected, systematically arranged and mounted at the offices in Rochester, the entire expense
of its preparation and transportation being borne by the State, with the exception of the binding
of written work and small incidental expenses, which were borne by the local school authorities.

LOCATION OF THE EXHIBIT

The space assigned to the State of New York contained approximately 2,300 square feet and was
most advantageously located. It was directly within and facing the main north entrance of the
Palace of Education, and at the intersection of the main north and south aisle and transverse
aisle "B." For its neighbors were the city of St. Louis and the State of Missouri, both of
which prepared most meritorious exhibits; and the State of Massachusetts, which is always looked
upon as standing in the front rank in educational progress.

The Exposition authorities announced that no unit smaller than the State in public school exhibits
would be recognized, except in the case of four or five cities which had powerful, strongly
centralized school systems, making them worthy of independent space and proper subjects for
individual study.

EXHIBIT OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK

The city of New York was numbered among these exceptions, and approximately 1,500 square feet
of space was assigned it adjoining the space assigned to the State of New York. The city government
appropriated $10,000 for its exhibit and bore the entire expense of the same. Associate Superintendent
Andrew W. Edson was named as committee in charge of the exhibit by Superintendent William H.
Maxwell. The city authorities early expressed a willingness and desire to co-operate with the
State authorities in the preparation of an exhibit and agreed to follow the same general style
of installation and arrangement. Due acknowledgment is hereby made to Superintendent Maxwell,
Associate Superintendent Edson and to committees in charge of minor details for the adoption
of plans already inaugurated in the preparation of the State exhibit, and to C. B. J. Snyder,
superintendent of school buildings in the city of New York, who prepared the plans for the
booth for both the State and city exhibits at no expense to the State.

THE INSTALLATION

The booth was so planned that from the outside it was apparently a single inclosure, the State
and city exhibits being separated on the interior by an appropriate screen nine feet high,
through which an entranceway was cut. Mr. Snyder's plans provided for a scheme of installation
which, while inexpensive, was both artistic and dignified and admirably adapted for the display
of the material to be exhibited. In fact it was generally conceded that much more effective
results had been obtained than by surrounding states which had expended considerably more money.
The inclosure was massive, the woodwork being an effective imitation of Flemish oak, and the
hanging surface a burlap of a neutral green tint; the facade, sixteen feet in height, being
broken every few feet at fixed intervals by fluted pilasters with ornamental caps. On the outside
a wainscoting extended three feet from the floor, above which were panels for hanging exhibit
material, the whole being capped by an attractive dentulated cornice. The entranceway, which
was thrown across the corner at the intersection of the aisles, was a massive arch, surmounted
by the coat of arms of the State, tinted in old ivory, underneath which in gold letters was,
"State of New York." The interior was cut by transverse walls, nine feet high and extending
seven feet from the main wall, thus forming a series of alcoves convenient for study on the
part of visitors and leaving in the center an open space for the display of models, apparatus
and cabinet material. Directly facing the entranceway were general and private offices. Completely
surrounding the interior of the booth, on the eye line, were 100 wall cabinets which have come
to be so generally used for the display of exhibit material. The wall space above the cabinets
was used for the display of especially meritorious and attractive material, while below was
a countershelf upon which, here and there, rested a showcase for the display of sewing, clay
modeling, botanical specimens, etc. Underneath the counters were shelves for bound books and
cupboards for the storage of printed matter and supplies. All work was mounted uniformly upon
a Scotch gray cardboard and neatly lettered in white ink.

SCOPE OF THE EXHIBIT

Instead of confining the exhibit to the work of the public schools, as was quite generally
done by other States exhibiting, it was decided to show, so far as possible, work now being
done in all forms and phases of education in the Empire State. Space was freely given to private
institutions to demonstrate the place which they are filling in the educational work of the
State. Every subdivision of the official classification found an exemplification within the
New York State exhibit. The participation of twenty-four cities and numerous incorporated villages,
both in elementary and high school work, made the exhibits of those departments thoroughly
representative of the work of the State as a whole. It is unfair to pick the work of a few
progressive school systems, and endeavor to make it stand for the work of the State at large.

PLAN OF ARRANGEMENT

The plan of arrangement was arrived at only after the most careful thought and discussion,
the desire being to so arrange the material as to be most serviceable to the educator and to
those seeking suggestions and helpful ideas. In arranging an educational exhibit, emphasis
must be placed either upon political divisions, subjects or grades. It was early determined
that no separate space should be assigned to any single locality, but that all of the work
of the State in the grades should be exhibited grade by grade and that of the high schools
by subjects, and arranged under various departments, such as science, classics, mathematics,
etc., thus making it possible for a grade teacher to readily compare her work with that of
New York's, and to profit by the comparison, no matter in whose favor it might be, and a high
school instructor in charge of a department to readily find the work of that department. This
method rendered it unnecessary to look over the exhibits from several cities to find the particular
work desired. Moreover, a further subdivision was made, in that the work was arranged according
to the population of the contributing cities and villages. That is, the work from the city
of the largest population contributing was installed first, and so on in order. While it was
not the purpose to invite comparison of work between rival cities of the State, but rather
to present a united front to the world at large, still if it was the desire of some to make
such comparison, the above indicated arrangement was the most equitable, as all cities of approximately
the same resources and theoretically working under like conditions were placed side by side,
and the work of the small village was not placed in juxtaposition with that of the large, strongly
centralized city system with many times its resources. A complete catalogue of the exhibit
was freely distributed, and cross-references made to work of the various localities, so there
was no difficulty for those interested in a single place to locate the work it contributed.

It was generally conceded that, while the above arrangement made no concession to local pride,
it was by all odds the wisest arrangement to follow in an exposition of international scope.
The compliments which were bestowed upon the arrangement of the exhibit, and the readiness
with which all visitors found the work in which they were particularly interested, demonstrated
beyond a doubt the wisdom of the committee in pursuing the course above outlined. The entire
exhibit was also carefully classified in harmony with the official classification of the Exposition
under the several groups and subdivisions thereof, thereby rendering additional aid in promptly
locating exhibits in any particular department.

EXHIBIT DIVISIONS

Entering the booth one found to the left of the entrance the exhibit of the former State Department
of Public Instruction. (It should be stated here that the exhibits of the University of the
State of New York and of the State Department of Public Instruction were prepared before unification
was an accomplished fact. The two exhibits can be said to have formed the exhibit of the new
Department of Education.)

Next was the exhibit of the kindergartens, filling three units. (The term "unit" is used to
designate one of the wall cabinets containing thirty-three cards 22 x 28 inches.)

Adjoining the kindergarten section was the exhibit of the elementary grades, filling twenty-five
units. All the subjects of the curriculum were shown, the work in the wall cabinets being "types"
or "samples" of work, the great bulk of which was shown in bound volumes. Cross-reference was
made on the margin of each card to the volume containing similar work, thus facilitating the
search of the visitor for a number of class exercises of work of the same general nature, and
relieving the visitor interested in a general way of looking over a vast repetition of material.
Separating the elementary grades from the high schools was the exhibit of the rural schools
of the State, those schools under the jurisdiction of the several school commissioners. It
was most complete and interesting, and afforded a clear picture of the work done in the ungraded
country schools. The exhibit of the high schools, filling fourteen units, was next in order,
and, as stated above, was subdivided into subjects. Twenty-four cities of the State, to say
nothing of the incorporated villages, private institutions, etc., contributed material in one
or more of the foregoing departments.

Next was installed the exhibit covering the professional training of teachers, equally divided
between the State Normal School system and the work of the training schools and classes in
cities and villages, each occupying five units. Every Normal School of the State was represented,
each making a special exhibit in the particular subject or subjects assigned it by a committee
of Normal School principals, to whom was delegated the duty of preparing an exhibit. All of
the city training schools in the State, save four, were represented, as well as the great majority
of training classes, the whole exhibit having been arranged by the State Supervisor of Training
Schools and Classes.

In the next section was installed the exhibit in higher education, exhibits being in place
from Colgate University, Hobart College, Manhattan College, the College of Pharmacy--allied
with Columbia University--and Syracuse University, the latter institution making an exhibit
both in applied sciences and in fine arts. Next were installed the exhibits of technical and
trade schools, which contained interesting displays from the leading institutions in the State
engaged in this line of work. Just beyond was the exhibit of the industrial schools, and then
the display of special work in education which is being done by institutions not wholly educational
in character. A unique unit was that devoted to the work of the Indian schools of the State,
each of the several reservations being represented, and the whole exhibit being arranged by
the State Inspector of Indian Schools.

The next alcove was devoted to the education of defectives. It contained concise exhibits from
the institutions of the State devoted to the instruction of the deaf, dumb and blind, and was
carefully studied by those engaged in this work.

The exhibit of summer schools and extension courses adjoined this and was designed to show
the work which is best exemplified by the Chautauqua institution. In a manner allied with this
work is that of the Education Department in visual instruction, which is carried on by lantern
slides to aid in the teaching of geography, history and kindred subjects. It was, therefore,
installed under this head. The exhibit received hearty commendation from educators generally,
but particularly from foreign visitors. The scheme is thoroughly practicable, and nowhere else
is it carried on with the same careful attention to detail, nor is the same perfection of slide
making reached as in the State of New York.

The last exhibit before leaving the booth was that of the University of the State of New York.

SPECIAL FEATURES

There were many features of special interest. A series of thirty-two charts were prepared as
the special exhibit of the New York State Teachers' Association, and will be reproduced in
the forthcoming report of that body. To one interested in following the tremendous progress
made in every branch of educational activity within our State during the past decade, these
charts are invaluable. The two charts here reproduced and which formed a part of the exhibit
of the Department of Public Instruction were the subject of much comment.

The model of the new State Normal and Training School at Fredonia, which was prepared by the
manual training and art classes of the institution, came in for its share of attention. It
was an accurate model of one of the State's finest educational structures.

The State Normal School at New Paltz sent a doll house made by the seventh grade boys for the
first grade children in the practice department, the entire structure being completely furnished
and appointed by the children.

A special feature was the exhibit of clay modeling from the State School of Clay Working and
Ceramics at Alfred, the only school of its kind in the United States receiving State aid. Near
by stood a cabinet full of home-made apparatus sent from various institutions, but a large
part of which came from the physical laboratories of Pratt Institute, Brooklyn. The exhibit
contained much of interest to a science teacher.

On the exterior of the facade was a huge educational map of the State, upon which was shown
the location, grade, construction and normal capacity of every institution of learning within
its borders. The superiority of New York's schoolhouses was shown by the large number constructed
of brick and stone. The year 1904 marked the passing of the log schoolhouse, only four of which
were shown upon the map as against approximately fifty ten years ago. The facade also contained
an admirable exhibit of art work prepared by the students of the New York School of Applied
Design for Women.

SIGNIFICANCE OF SOME CITY EXHIBITS

Various methods of instruction peculiar to certain cities or localities were fully set forth.
Albany exhibited the work of one of the most complete systems of free kindergartens in the
country, as well as the correlation of subjects in the elementary grades; also manual training
and art courses in the high school. Batavia demonstrated the system of individual instruction
as carried on in its schools, which involves the employment of two teachers in each classroom.
Syracuse exemplified its courses in art, manual training and physical training in the elementary
grades. Jamestown clearly set forth its course in manual training throughout the entire school
course, while Ithaca, in addition to a well-rounded exhibit, by means of photographs, brought
out the subject of high school athletics. The exhibit from Yonkers, which was general in character,
portrayed the efficiency and superiority of the school equipment in that city.

EDITORIAL COMMENT

The exhibit from first to last demonstrated beyond peradventure the beneficial results accruing
from a strongly centralized, and, at the same time, most liberal administration of educational
interests.

A prominent morning daily paper, commenting editorially upon the exhibit, says: "It is worth
your attention; it means more to every citizen of the Empire State than any other exhibit shown.
The chief product of the Empire State is men; neither fields of grain or manufactures, invention
or art are as important a product as men. In New York State are produced some of the greatest
men of the country. A large part of the raw material comes into New York harbor past 'Liberty
Enlightening the World,' and is gradually converted into citizenship. ... Some of the raw material
imported is next to worthless; some of the domestic stuff is equally unpromising, but in the
great bulk, year in and year out, there is the making of fine men. ... New York State men are
scattered throughout the country. They found the cities of the west; they run the railroads;
they manipulate the finances; they capitalize the new enterprises; they invest in the futures;
they get into the public offices; they plan the political campaigns; they produce the new ideas;
they center current history. Men are made in New York State in the schools. ... The better
the schools the finer the quality of the men produced. Therefore, the school exhibit of New
York State should interest every citizen, as the schools have been bettering year by year and
the product increasing in value. ... The Commission in charge of this exhibit has spared no
expense to make this educational showing a storehouse of novel ideas and suggestions dealing
with the advance in pedagogy, and of the State's resources in the teaching of the young idea."

DISPOSITION OF MATERIAL

Many requests were received from the representatives of foreign governments, agents of pedagogical
museums and individuals for portions of the exhibit, but the determination of the Lewis and
Clark Exposition Commission of the State of New York to send the entire exhibit to the Exposition
at Portland, Oregon, precluded the possibility of acceding to these requests and insures the
holding intact of the entire exhibit throughout the Portland Exposition period, at the conclusion
of which it is to be hoped that provision will be made for the establishment of a Pedagogical
Museum at the Capitol in Albany, of which this exhibit may be made the nucleus.

ITEMS OF EXPENDITURE

The appropriation of $20,000 was expended approximately, as follows

Installation: Booth, wall cabinets, furniture, etc.    $6,000
Salary of Director and assistants and maintenance
  at St. Louis -----------------------------------      8,500
Freight, express, cartage, telegrams, etc. -------      1,000
Material used in preparation and general supplies       2,700
Traveling expenses -------------------------------      1,250
Printing and stationery --------------------------        350
Expenses of Advisory Committee -------------------        200
                                                      -------
Total --------------------------------------------    $20,000
                                                      =======

THE STAFF

The Director acknowledges the loyalty and efficiency of those associated with him in the work
of the department. To them belongs a large share of any credit which may be forthcoming for
the value of the exhibit.

In an educational exhibit, probably more than any other, the necessity of a personal explanation
to supplement the work exhibited is necessary. Miss Olive C. Kellogg, of New York city, and
Miss Clara M. Paquet, of Cohoes, expert attendants, were always ready to explain the work exhibited,
and to give full information concerning the distinctive features of the various city systems
and institutions. They spoke the principal foreign languages, thus aiding visitors from abroad
in more easily grasping the ideas set forth and the methods exemplified.

Miss Mary MacArthur, of Rochester, N.Y., served throughout the period of preparation and through
the Exposition period as general assistant and stenographer; Hugh J. Kelly, of Albany, N.Y.,
as assistant and clerk, and E.J. Haddleton and H.B. Skinner, of Albany, as expert letterers
and draftsmen.

Catalogue of Exhibitors in the Department of Education, Arranged by Groups, with the Awards,
if Any, Received by Each

GROUP ONE

Kindergartens, Elementary Education, and Training of Teachers for Same

Albany, Board of Education, public schools. Gold medal
    Administrative blanks
    Forty-one volumes class exercises
    Photographs
    Course of study in drawing and drawings
Ballston, Board of Education, training class. Collective award,
      gold medal
    Students' written work
Batavia, Board of Education, public schools.
    Catalogues
Education, State Department of. Gold medal
    Sixteen volumes pupils' written work
    Sloyd work
    Administrative blanks
    Photographs
Jamestown, Board of Education, public schools. Silver medal
    Nineteen volumes pupils' written work
    Statistical charts
    Cabinet of manual training work
    Administrative blanks
    Photographs
Johnstown, Board of Education, public schools. Collective award, gold medal
      Photographs. Gold medal
    Nineteen volumes pupils' written work
    Drawings
    Photographs of buildings
    Photographs illustrating physical training and school plans

The following awards were made in this group to exhibits not a part of the collective State
exhibit:

New York city, Department of Education, collective exhibit. Grand
      prize
    a. School system
    b. Collective exhibit of elementary grades
    c. Collective exhibit of vacation schools and evening schools
    d. Collective exhibit of manual training, drawing, and
       domestic science
    e. Physical training and methods for atypical children
    f. Kindergartens
    g. Free lecture system
    h. Training schools
    i. Exhibit of school buildings
New York city, Department of Education, collective exhibit. Gold
      medal
    Manual training. Drawing.
    Vacation schools. Grand prize
    Education Department
Charles R. Skinner, Albany. Gold medal
    Department of Public Instruction
DeLancey Al. Ellis, Rochester. Gold medal
    State exhibit
William A. Wadsworth, Geneseo. Gold medal
    Improvement of school grounds
Luther H. Gulick, New York city. Gold medal
    Physical training
Theodore C. Hailes, Albany. Silver medal
    Educational map
John Kennedy, Batavia. Silver medal
    Individual instruction
James P. Haney, New York city. Silver medal
    Manual training
Mrs. Anna L. Jessup, New York city. Silver medal
    Sewing
Mrs. Mary E. Williams, New York city. Silver medal
    Cooking
Evangeline E. Whitney, New York city. Silver medal
    Vacation schools
Matthew J. Elgas, New York city. Silver medal
    Evening schools
C. P. J. Snyder, New York city. Silver medal
    Facade of exhibit

A grand prize was also awarded to the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission of the State
of New York for its collective exhibit in this group, with special mention of the Department
of Education, administrative features; Department of Public Instruction, administrative features,
visual instruction system, and the educational map.

GROUP TWO

Secondary Education. Training of Teachers for Same

Adelphi Academy and College, Brooklyn
    Catalogues
Albany, Board of Education, high school. Gold medal
    Fifteen volumes students' written work
    Photographs illustrating manual training course
    Drawings
Albany, Board of Education, training school
    One volume students' written work
    Photographs
Avon Club, Jamestown High School
    Administrative blanks
    Program of exercises
Batavia, Board of Education, high school. Gold medal
    One volume students' written work
    Photographs
    Drawings
Beck Literary Society, Albany Academy. Bronze medal
    Historical sketch
    Administrative blanks
    Programs
    List of members
Brockport, State Normal School. Collective award, gold medal
    Seventeen volumes students' work
    Photographs
Buffalo, Masten Park High School. Collective award, gold medal
    Administrative blanks
    Two volumes students' written work
    Four volumes student periodical and drawings
Buffalo, State Normal School. Collective award, gold medal
    Two volumes science note books
    Illustrated science work
    Ten volumes publications
    Photographs
Buffalo, Board of Education, Teachers' Training School.
Map, educational map of New York State. Bronze medal
    Three volumes students' publication "Clarion" Collective
      award, gold medal
    Students' selected work
    Photographs
Salarranca, Board of Education, union school, high school
      department. Grand prize
New York city, Department of Education, Commercial High School.
  Gold medal
New York city, Department of Education, training school. Gold medal
New York city, Department of Education, manual training. Gold medal

The following awards were made to collaborators: J. Russell Parsons, Jr., Albany. Gold medal
DeLancey M. Ellis, Rochester. Gold medal Myron T. Scudder, New Paltz. Gold medal A.T. Marble,
New York city. Gold medal Frank D. Boynton, Ithaca. Gold medal F.B. Palmer, Fredonia. Gold
medal. James P. Haney, New York city.

GROUP THREE

Higher Education. Colleges and Universities, Libraries, Museums,
Technical Schools
Albany. State Normal College. Gold medal
    Statistics
    Publications
Clarkson Memorial School of Technology, Potsdam, N. Y. Bronze medal
    Nine volumes theses
    Three volumes students' written work
    One volume catalogue and addresses
    Photographs
    Mechanical drawings
Colgate University, Hamilton. Silver medal
    Thirty-seven publications
    Map of grounds
    Mechanical drawings
    Statistics
College of Pharmacy, Columbia University, New York city
    Drugs
    Pharmaceutical preparations
    Eight volumes text books
Education, State Department of. (See State Library.) Grand prize
    Reports
    Bulletins
    Administrative blanks
    Statistics
Hobart College, Geneva. Bronze medal
    Map of campus
    Eight volumes publications
    Photographs. Charts
Hobart College. Gold medal
    Astronomical department and discoveries
Manhattan College, department of civil engineering, New York city.
      Silver medal
    Theses
    Mechanical drawing illustrating construction of dams and
      embankments. Also bridge construction
    Annual catalogues
Map, educational map of New York State. Silver medal
    (Award to go to Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission)
Post Graduate Medical School and Hospital, New York city
    Photographs
    Publications
    Catalogues
Rochester Theological Seminary
    Two volumes catalogues
State Library, Department of Education. Grand prize
    Traveling libraries
    Blanks
    Statistics
Syracuse University, Syracuse. Gold medal
    College of Fine Arts
      Drawings, architectural and free hand
    College of Applied Science
      Metal work
      Wood work
      Model of steam engine
      Home-made laboratory apparatus
University of the State of New York. Grand prize
    General exhibit
Columbia University, New York city. Bronze medal
    Special exhibit of Department of Indo-Iranian Languages
Cornell University, Ithaca. Grand prize
    General exhibit
Cornell University, Ithaca. Silver medal
    Special exhibit of water color sketches
Cornell University, Ithaca. Silver medal
    Special exhibit of Sibley College
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy. Grand prize
    General exhibit
Vassar College, Poughkeepsie. Grand prize
    General exhibit
Rev. D. Stuart Dodge, New York city. Gold medal
    Relief map, Protestant College at Beirut, Syria
Pratt Institute, Brooklyn. Gold medal
    Special exhibit of Polytechnic Department
New York University, New York city. Gold medal
Kny-Scheerer Company, New York. city. Gold medal
    Operating tables
    Hospital appliances

The following awards were made to collaborators:

Andrew S. Draper. Gold medal
    Monograph
James Russell Parsons, Jr., Albany. Gold medal
    Monograph
James McKeen Cattell, Columbia University, New York. Gold medal
    Monograph
Edward Delevan Perry, Columbia University, New York. Gold medal
    Monograph
Melvil Dewey, Albany. Gold medal
    State librarian

GROUP FOUR

Education in Fine Arts

Clay Working and Ceramics, State School of. Silver medal
    Specimens of pottery and modeling tools
New York School of Applied Design for Women. Gold medal
    Framed designs and prospectus
Syracuse University, College of Fine Arts. Grand prize
Mademoiselle Veltin, New York city. Bronze medal
    School of Fine Arts for Young Ladies

GROUP FIVE

Education in Agriculture and Forestry

Education, State Department of, State Museum Division. Gold medal
    Exhibit of root crops
Cornell University, Department of Botany, Ithaca. Gold medal
    Apparatus for photographing
Cornell University, Agricultural Experiment Station, Ithaca. Silver
      medal
    Poultry breeding
Cornell University, Ithaca. Bronze medal
    Insects
New York Agricultural Experiment Station. Gold medal
    Investigations on milk
New York Agricultural Experiment Station. Gold medal
    Curing and paraffining cheese
New York Agricultural Experiment Station. Gold medal
    Commercial feeding stuffs
New York Agricultural Experiment Station. Bronze medal
    Investigations on rusty spot in cheese
New York Agricultural Experiment Station. Bronze medal
    Wax model showing scale
Kny-Scheerer Company, New York city. Gold medal
    Biological preparations
    Biological and anatomical models

GROUP SIX

Industrial and Trade Schools

Business Education. Education of the Indian

Albany Business College, Albany. Gold medal
    Pen drawings
    Six volumes students' written work
    Photographs
Binghamton School of Business, Binghamton
    Photographs and prospectus
Clara de Hirsch Home for Working Girls, New York
    Photographs
    Industrial work
Education, State Department of
    (See Indian Schools)
Henley Business School, Syracuse
    Photographs
    Administrative blanks
    Students' written work
Indian schools. Silver medal
    [Footnote: Award to go to Education Department, State of New York]
    Collective exhibit, including material from the Allegany,
      Cattaraugus, Tonawanda, Onondaga, Shinnecock and
      Poospatuck Reservations
    Pupils' written work
    Photographs
    Drawings
    Industrial work
Industrial School, Rochester
    Two volumes pupils' written work
    Manual training and industrial work
Manhattan Trade School for Girls, New York city. Silver medal
    Pupils' written work
    Industrial work
    Photographs
    Statistics
New York Trade School, New York. Bronze medal
    Photographs.
    Courses of study

The following awards were made to collaborators:

S.E. Bartow, Albany Business College. Silver medal
    Pen drawings

GROUP SEVEN

Education for Defectives.
    Photographs
New York Institution for the Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb,
New York city. Gold medal
    Photographs
    Drawings
    Pupils' written work
    Pyrography
    Publications
    Eighteen volumes of reports
    Text-books
    Administrative blanks
Northern New York Institution for Deaf-Mutes, Malone
    Pupils' selected work in drawing
New York Institution for the Blind, New York city. Bronze medal
    Cord, rattan and raffia work
New York State School for the Blind, Batavia. Silver medal
    Three volumes pupils' work
    Basketry
    Broom making
    Mattress making
    Piano action repairing
    Sewing
    Photographs
    Administrative blanks
State Library, Home Education Division. Silver medal
    Traveling library for the blind
Western New York Institution for Deaf-Mutes, Rochester. Grand prize
    New York State collaborators:
      State School for the Blind, Batavia
      New York School for the Blind, New York city
Association of Medical Officers of Institutions for Idiots and
  Feeble-Minded Persons. Grand prize
    New York State collaborators:
      State Custodial Asylum for Unteachable Idiots, Rome
      State Institution for Feeble-Minded Children, Syracuse
Convention of American Instructors of the Deaf. Grand prize
    New York State collaborator:
      Wright Oral School for the Deaf, New York city
New York city, Department of Education. Gold medal
    For the establishment of a special school for the education
      of atypical children
New York Institution for Feeble-Minded, Syracuse. Gold medal
Wright Oral School for the Deaf, New York city. Bronze medal

GROUP EIGHT

Summer Schools, Extension Schools, Popular Lectures, Educational Publications and Appliances

Adirondack Summer School, Saranac Lake
    Photographs and pamphlets
Chautauqua Institution, Chautauqua, N. Y. Grand prize
    Photographs
    Publications
    Administrative blanks
    Prospectus and syllibi
City History Club of New York. Bronze medal
    Six volumes pupils' written work
    Photographs
    Charts
    Statistics
People's Institute, New York city. Silver medal
    One volume, "Working with the People"
    Prospectus
    Photographs
Teachers' Association, New York State. Gold medal
    Statistical exhibit, 32 graphic charts
Training School for Deaconesses, New York city. Silver medal
    Administrative blanks
    Catalogues
    Photographs
Young Women's Christian Association, New York city. Grand prize
Dodd, Mead & Company, New York city. Grand prize
Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, New York city. Grand prize
American Book Company, school and college text-books. Grand
  prize
Silver, Burdett & Company, New York city. Grand prize
Prang Educational Company, New York city. Grand prize
Charles Beseler Company, New York city, stereopticons and appliances.
      Gold medal
Pitmanic Institute, Phonographic, New York city. Gold medal
C.W. Bardeen, Syracuse. Silver medal
S.S. Packard, New York city. Silver medal

The following awards were made to collaborators:

Henry L. Taylor, professional education in the United States.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECAPITULATION OF THE AWARDS MADE TO THE STATE OF NEW YORK IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Grand Prize Gold Medal
Group I................ 5 Group I................ 63
Group 2................ 3 Group I, collab........  2
Group 3................ 7 Group 2................ 36
Group 4................ I Group 2, collab........  5
Group 5................ I Group 3................ 14
Group 6................ ..Group 4................  I
Group 7................ 3 Group 5................  6
Group 8................ 8 Group 6................  I
Special................ I Group 7................  3
                          Group 8................  4
 [**Total]             29 Special................  4
                                       [**Total] 139
Silver Medal                      Bronze Medal
Group I................ 2 Group I.............. ..
Group 1, collab........ 8 Group 2................ 2
Group 2................ I Group 3................ 3
Group 3................ 5 Group 4................ 2
Group 4................ I Group 5................ 3
Group 5................ I Group 6................ I
Group 6................ 2 Group 7................ 3
Group 6, collab.......  I Group 8................ I
Group 7................ 2
Group 8................ 5            [**Total]   15

     [**Total]         28
Grand prizes.................  29
Gold medals.................. 139
Silver medals................. 28
Bronze medals................  15
Grand total................   211

CHAPTER X

Fine Arts Exhibit and Schedule of Awards

THE FINE ARTS EXHIBIT

By CHARLES M. KURTZ

Acting Secretary of the Executive Committee on Art

Up to the time of the organization of the Committee on Art for the State of New York, appointed
by the New York State Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission, very little had been accomplished
in the direction of securing a collection of representative works by the artists of New York
for exhibition at the World's Fair at St. Louis. Professor Ives, Chief of the Department of
Art of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, and Assistant Chief Kurtz had visited New York at
frequent intervals (the first time in January, 1902), had aroused considerable interest in
the Exposition among the artists, and had secured the appointment of Advisory Committees of
Painters, Sculptors, Architects, Mural Painters, Miniature Painters, Engravers, Wood Engravers,
Illustrators and Workers in the Applied Arts to look after the organization of exhibits in
their respective fields of expression and the interests of the Department of Art of the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition in connection therewith.

WAYS AND MEANS

It was impossible, however, for the work to be carried on in an adequate and worthy manner
without State co-operation and assistance, and a committee of artists, representing the various
Advisory Committees, appeared before the Commission, asked that a committee of artists representing
the State of New York be appointed to co-operate with the Advisory Committees in the organization
of a creditable art exhibit, and that a suitable sum of money be appropriated from the funds
placed at the disposal of the Commission to defray the cost of organizing the exhibit, packing,
transporting it to and from St. Louis, and insuring it while in transit; the Exposition authorities
having agreed to pay the cost of unpacking in St. Louis, installation, insurance while in the
Art Palace, and repacking and forwarding at the close of the Exposition.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON ART

After several meetings at the offices of the Commission in New York city and a forceful presentation
of the condition of affairs (and the urgent necessity of action by the Commission) by Mr. Watrous,
of the Artists' Committee, the Commission formally resolved to appropriate the sum of $10,000
for the purpose indicated, and appointed the following "Executive Committee on Art for the
State of New York" to assume general direction of the work within the limits of the appropriation:
Herbert Adams (sculptor), Grosvenor Atterbury (architect), J. Carroll Beckwith (painter), Francis
C. Jones (painter), Louis Loeb (painter and illustrator), Will H. Low (painter, illustrator
and mural painter) and Harry W. Watrous (painter). These men variously represented membership
in the National Academy of Design, the Society of American Artists, the National Sculpture
Society, the Society of Mural Painters, the American Water Color Society, the Society of Illustrators,
the New York Etching Club, the American Fine Art Society, the American Institute of Architects,
the New York Architectural League, the Municipal Art Society of New York and the Fine Arts
Federation of New York. The Committee formally organized by the election of Harry W. Watrous
as Chairman. Charles M. Kurtz, Assistant Chief of the Department of Art of the Louisiana Purchase
Exposition, was appointed Acting Secretary without salary.

At a general meeting of the members of all the Advisory Committees in New York city, called
by Chairman Watrous at the National Academy of Design, for each committee representing a group
of the classification a chairman and a secretary was elected and general plans were formulated
for the carrying on of the work.

Thereafter, frequent meetings were held by the various committees, at nearly all of which the
Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Acting Secretary were present and participated
in the work.

CAREFUL SELECTION OF MATERIAL

The Juries of Selection for the different groups of the classification of the Department of
Art, constituted from the membership of the Advisory Committees representing various sections
of the country, met and acted during the last two weeks of March, 1904, in the city of New
York, passing upon upwards of 4,000 works submitted for exhibition. Of this assemblage of works
a comparatively small number represented artists of high reputation, and a small proportion
was found to be of sufficient merit worthily to represent the artists of the State. The number
of exhibits secured thus being very small, and many of the more prominent artists not having
submitted works, the different group juries held meetings, prepared lists of representative
works calculated to reflect credit upon the State, and specifically invited artists and owners
to lend the same for the Exposition. By this means the larger and better portion of the exhibit
was secured.

The State of New York, the Louisiana Purchase Exposition and the artists in general in the
State of New York are under great obligations to the members of these juries who so freely,
unselfishly and devotedly gave their valuable time and effort to the organization of the art
exhibit which represented so comprehensively the best achievement of New York artists.

A REPRESENTATIVE EXHIBIT

Almost every New York painter of individuality and ability--in oil, water-color and miniature
work--was represented adequately and creditably; the exhibit of sculpture was exceptionally
fine; etching and engraving were exemplified by the ablest exponents of these branches of art,
wood engraving by types of its highest expression; there was an excellent collection of works
from the leading American illustrators, and noteworthy examples of the applied arts--of artistic
handicrafts--by New York art workers were well in evidence. In architecture, while the exhibit
was creditable, it might have been more comprehensive and representative; and the same might
be said of the exhibit of mural painting. The latter, however, as readily may be understood,
is extremely difficult of representation at an exposition--most of its examples having been
executed in place, and only cartoons or photographs of achieved works usually being available
for exhibition.

ADVISORY COMMITTEES

The members of the various Advisory Committees in charge of the organization of the group exhibits
were as follows:

For Oil Paintings: Cecilia Beaux, J. Carroll Beckwith, J. G. Brown, Howard Russell Butler,
William M. Chase, William A. Coffin, Frederick Dielman, R. Swain Gifford, H. Bolton Jones,
John La Farge, Alexander T. Van Laer, Harry W. Watrous.

For Water Colors, Pastels and Lithographs: F.S. Church, Charles C. Curran, Francis C. Jones,
Will H. Low, J.C. Nicoll, Will S. Robinson, Henry B. Snell.

For Miniature Painting: William J. Baer, Lucia Fairchild Fuller, Laura C. Hills.

For Sculpture: Daniel C. French, H.A. MacNeil, A. Phimister Proctor, Augustus Saint Gaudens,
J.Q.A. Ward.

For Etchings and Engravings (other than wood engravings): Carlton T. Chapman, C.F. Mielatz,
J.C. Nicoll, Alexander Schilling, James D. Smillie.

For Wood Engravings: George T. Andrew, Frank French, Henry Wolf.

For Drawings for Illustration: Henry S. Fleming, Charles Dana Gibson, Arthur I. Keller, Louis
Loeb, Howard Pyle.

For Architecture: Grosvenor Atterbury, Arnold W. Brunner, Walter Cook, H.J. Hardenberg, John
Galen Howard, C. Grant La Farge, Charles F. McKim, Henry Rutgers Marshall, George B. Post.

For Mural Painting: Will H. Low, George W. Maynard, Charles Y. Turner.

For Applied Arts: William Couper, John La Farge, Frederick S. Lamb, Louis C. Tiffany, Stanford
White, Douglas Volk.

Harry W. Watrous, Chairman of Executive Committee, Ex-officio member of all committees.

Exhibits of New York Artists Arranged by Groups, Together with the Number of Works Contributed,
and Award, if Any, Received by Each

GROUP NINE

Paintings and Drawings

Oil Paintings

Alexander, John W., 8. Gold medal Anderson, Karl J., 1 Barse, George R., 1 Baylos, Zellna,
1 Beal, Gifford, 2. Bronze medal Beaux, Cecilia, 3. Gold medal Beckwith, Carroll, 3. Silver
medal Bell, Edward A., 1. Silver medal Birney, W. V., 2. Bronze medal Blakelock, R. A., 1 Blenner,
Carle J., 2. Bronze medal Blum, Robert F. (deceased), 1 Bogert, George H., 2. Silver medal
Borglum, Gutzon, 1 Brigham, W. Cole, 1 Bristol, J. B., 1 Brown, Ethelbert, 1 Brown, J. Francis,
1 Brown, J. G., 5 Brown, Matilda, 1 Bruce, Patrick Henry, 1 Brush, George de Forest. 1. Gold
medal Burroughs, Bryson, 2. Bronze medal Butler, Howard Russell, 2. Bronze medal Carlsen, Emil,
4. Gold medal Carr, Lyell, 2. Bronze medal Chapman, Carlton T., 2 Chase, William M., 7 Child,
Edward B., 2 Church, Frederick S., 3. Silver medal Clark, Walter, 2. Silver medal Coffin, William
A., 2. Silver medal Collins, Alfred Q. (deceased), 2 Coman, Charlotte B., 2 Cooper, Colin C.,
5 Cooper, Emma Lampert, 1. Bronze medal Cotton, Mrs. Leslie, 1 Couse, E. Irving, 3. Bronze
medal Cox, Kenyon, 1. Gold medal Cox, Louise, 1. Silver medal Crane, Bruce, 6. Gold medal Crane,
Frederick, 2. Bronze medal Curran, Charles C., 4. Silver medal Curtis, Constance, 1 Curtis,
Elizabeth, 1 Daingerfield, Elliott, 1 De Forest, Lockwood, 1 De Haven, Frank, 1. Silver medal
Denman, Herbert (deceased), 1 Dewey, Charles Melville, 2. Silver medal Dodge, W. de Leftwich,
2 Dougherty, Paul, 1 Drake, W. H., 1 Dufner, Edward, 3. Silver medal Du Mond, Frank V., 6.
Silver medal Dustin, Silas S., 1 Eaton, Charles Warren, 4. Silver medal Emmett, Ellen, 2. Silver
medal Emmett, Lydia Field, 1. Silver medal Ericson, David, 1. Silver medal Field, Edward Loyal,
1 Flagg, Montague, 1. Silver medal Florian, Walter, 3. Silver medal Foote, Will Howe, 1. Bronze
medal Foster, Ben, 3. Silver medal Fournier, Alexis J., 3 Fowler, Frank, 3 Fromkes, Maurice,
1 Gauley, Robert D., 3. Bronze medal Gay, Edward, 2. Bronze medal Gifford, R. Swain, 3 Glackens,
W. J., 1. Silver medal Green, Frank Russell, 2. Bronze medal Groll, Albert L., 2. Silver medal
Guy, Seymour J., 4. Gold medal Harrison, Birge, 5. Silver medal Hart, Letitia B., 1 Hart, Mary
T., 1 Hassam, Childe, 6. Gold medal Havens, Belle, 1 Hawthorne, C. W., 1 Henri, Robert. 2.
Silver medal Henry, Edward L., 3. Bronze medal Herzog, Louis, 2. Bronze medal Hitchcock, Lucius
W., 1. Bronze medal Hoeber, Arthur, 1 Homer, Winslow, 2. Gold medal Howe, W. H., 3 Humphreys,
Albert, 1 Huntington, Daniel, 1 Hyde, William H., 1 Inness, George, Jr., 2 Isham, Samuel, 3.
Silver medal Johnson, Eastman, 2. Gold medal Jones, Francis C., 2. Silver medal Jones, H. Bolton,
3. Gold medal Jongers, Alphonse, 2. Silver medal Kaufman, John F., 1 Kendall, Margaret, 1.
Bronze medal Kendall, W. Sergeant, 5. Gold medal Ketcham, Susan N., 1 Kline, William F., 2.
Bronze medal Kost, Frederick W., 2. Silver medal Lang, Charles M., 1 Lathrop, W. L., 1. Bronze
medal Lawson, Ernest, 2. Silver medal Lee, Henry C., 1 Lee, Homer, 1 Leigh, W. R., 1 Lie, Jonas,
3. Silver medal Linson, Corwin K., 2 Lippincott, W. H., 2. Bronze medal Lockman, De Witt M.,
1 Loeb, Louis, 2. Silver medal Low, Will H., 5 Lucas, Alfred P., 1 Lyman, Joseph, 1. Bronze
medal McChasney, Clara T., 1. Bronze medal McCord, George H., 1. Bronze medal McIlhenny, C.
M. (deceased), 2 McLane, M. Jean, 2. Bronze medal Marchand, J. N., 1 Marsh, Frederick Dana,
1. Bronze medal Maynard, George W., 2 Metcalf, Willard L., 3. Silver medal Miller, Charles
H., 1 Millet, F. D., 1 Minor, Robert C. (deceased), 2 Mora, F. Luis, 1. Bronze medal Moran,
Thomas, 2 Moschowitz, Paul, 2. Silver medal Mosler, Gustave H., 1. Bronze medal Mosler, Henry,
1 Murphy, J. Francis, 2. Silver medal Myers, Jerome, 2. Bronze medal Mygatt, R. K., 1. Silver
medal Needham, C. Austin, 3. Bronze medal Newell, G. Glenn, 1 Nicoll, J. C., 3 Norton, W. E.,
1 Ochtman, Leonard, 5. Gold medal Palmer, Walter L., 2. Silver medal Parton, Arthur, 2. Bronze
medal Perrine, Van Deering, 3 Poore, Henry R., 3. Silver medal Porter, Benjamin C., 3. Silver
medal Post, W. Merritt, 2 Potthast, Edward H., 3. Silver medal Prellwitz, Henry, 1. Silver
medal Questgaard, W., 1 Raught, J. W., 2 Rehn, F. K. M. 3. Silver medal Reid, Robert, 3. Silver
medal Remington, Frederic, 1 Rice, W. M. J., 1 Robinson, Theodore (deceased), 4 Robinson, Will
S., 2 Rook, Edward F., 5. Silver medal Rouland, Orlando, 1 Sartain, William, 1 Saxton, John
Gordon, 1. Bronze medal Schreyvogel, Charles, 1. Bronze medal Schroeter, Alexander, 1 Schwill,
William V., 3. Bronze medal Sears, Taber, 1. Bronze medal Sewell, Amanda B., 3. Bronze medal
Sewell, Robert V. V., 1. Silver medal Sheppard, Warren, 1 Sherwood, M. C., 1 Shirlaw, Walter,
1. Silver medal Shurtleff, R. M., 1. Bronze medal Sieber, E. G., 1 Simmons, Edward E., 1 Smillie,
George H., 1. Bronze medal Smith, De Cost, 1 Smith, W. Granville, 1 Snell, Henry B., 3. Silver
medal Steichen, Eduard, 2 Stokes, Frank W., 1 Talcott, Allen B., 4. Silver medal Thorne, William,
3 Todd, Henry S., 1. Bronze medal Tryon, D. W., 4. Gold medal Turcas, Jules, 1. Bronze medal
Twachtman, J. H. (deceased), 3 Van Boskerck, R. W., 3. Silver medal Van der Veer, Mary, 1.
Bronze medal Van Laer, Alexander T., 3 Volk, Douglas, 3. Silver medal Vonnoh, Robert W., 5
Voorhees, Clark G., 1. Bronze medal Walcott, H.M., 2. Silver medal Walker, Horatio, 4. Gold
medal Walker, Henry Oliver, 2. Silver medal Watrous, Harry W., 2 Weber, F.W., 1 Weir, J. Alden,
2. Gold medal Whittemore, W.J., 1 Whittredge, Worthington, 3. Silver medal Weigand, Gustav,
1. Bronze medal Wiggins, Carleton, 4 Wiles, Irving R., 5. Gold medal Wiley, Frederick J., 5.
Bronze medal Woolf, S.J., 1 Wores, Theodore, 1 Wyant, A.H. (deceased), 3 Yates, Cullen, 1.
Bronze medal Total--Artists, 207; works, 423

Water Colors and Pastels

Annan, Alice H., 1 Barse, George R., 1 Beckwith, Carroll, 2. See "Oil Paintings" Bicknell,
E.M., 1 Birney, W.V., 1. See "Oil Paintings" Blum, Robert F. (deceased), 2 Bridges, Fidelia,
1 Bristol, J.B., 1 Brown, J.G., 1 Budworth, W.S., 3 Butler, Howard Russell, 2. See "Oil Paintings"
Chapman, Carlton T., 1 Chase, William M., 1 Clements, George H., 1 Clinedinst, B.W., 2 Colby,
Josephine W., 1 Colman, Samuel, 1 Coman, Charlotte B., 1 Cooper, Colin C., 1 Cooper, Emma Lampert,
4. See "Oil Paintings" Crowninshield, Frederic, 1 Curran, Charles C., 1. See "Oil Paintings"
Curtis, Constance, 1 Daingerfield, Elliott, 2 De Luce, Percival, 1 Dewey, Charles Melville,
2. See "Oil Paintings" Dewing, Thomas W., 8. Gold medal Dielman, Frederick, 2 Drake, Will H.,
1 Eaton, Charles Warren, 3. See "Oil Paintings" Edwards, George Wharton, 2 Fenn, Harry, 1 Foss,
H. Campbell, 2 Foster, Ben, 1. See "Oil Paintings" Fry, G. T., 2 Gifford, R. Swain, 1 Gilbert,
C. Allen, 3 Green, Frank Russell, 1. See "Oil Paintings" Greene, F. Stewart, 1 Guerin, Jules,
2. Silver medal Hardenbergh, Elizabeth R., 1 Hassam, Childe, 3. See "Oil Paintings" Homer,
Winslow, 1. See "Oil Paintings" Hore, Ethel, 1 Isham, Samuel, 1. See "Oil Paintings" Jones,
H. Bolton, 1. See "Oil Paintings" Keith, Dora Wheeler, 1 Keller, Arthur L., 3. Silver medal
Kinsella, James, 3 La Farge, John, 3. See "Commemorative Award" Liebscher, Gustav, 1 Linson,
Corwin K., 3 Lippincott, W. H., 1. See "Oil Paintings" McCord, George H., 3. See "Oil Paintings"
McIlhenny, C. M. (deceased), 1 McLane, M. Jean, 2. See "Oil Paintings" McChesney, Clara T.,
1. See "Oil Paintings" Mora, F. Luis, 1. See "Oil Paintings" Moran, Percy, 2 Newell, G. Glenn,
2 Nicholls, Rhoda H., 2. Bronze medal Nicoll, J. C., 2 O'Leary, Angela, 1 Ochtman, Leonard,
1. See "Oil Paintings" Of, George F., Jr., 1 Palmer, Walter L., 4. See "Oil Paintings" Platt,
Alethea H., 2 Post, W. M., 1 Potthast, Edward H., 1. See "Oil Paintings" Proctor, A. Phimister,
1. Bronze medal Redmond, Frieda W., 1 Redmond, John J., 2 Rehn, F. K. M., 1. See "Oil Paintings"
Ritschel, William, 2 Robinson, Will S., 1. Bronze medal Rockwood, Catherine C., 2 Rook, Edward
F., 1 Rosenmeyer, B. J., 2 Sanders, Bertha D., 2 Schilling, Alexander, 2. Silver medal Schneider,
W. G., 1 Scott, Emily M., 2 Sherwood, Rosina E., 5. Silver medal Shirlaw, Walter, 5. See "Oil
Paintings" Shurtleff, R. M., 2. See "Oil Paintings" Smillie, George H., 1. See "Oil Paintings"
Smith, F. Hopkinson, 3 Smith, W. Granville, 1 Snell, Florence F., 1 Snell, Henry B., 4. See
"Oil Paintings" Soper, James H. Gardner, 1. Bronze medal Spafard, Myra B., 1 Stowell, M. Louise,
1 Tryon, D. W., 15. See "Oil Paintings" Twachtman, J. H. (deceased), 3 Van Laer, Alexander
T., 1 Walker, Horatio, 3. See "Oil Paintings" Weir, J. Alden, 3. See "Oil Paintings" Weldon,
C. D., 2 Whittemore, W. J., 2 Yates, Cullen, 2. See "Oil Paintings" Zogbaum, Rufus F., 1 Total--Artists,
102; works, 194

Miniatures

Baer, W. J., 3 Baxter, Martha W., 2 Bayliss, Lillian, 1 Beckington, Alice, 4. Bronze medal
De Haas, Alice P. T., 1 Dix, Eulabee, 1 Emmett, Lydia Field, 1. See "Oil Paintings" Holley,
Caroline E., 3 Howard, Clara, 1 Kendall, Margaret, 3. See "Oil Paintings" King, Paul, 1 Nicholls,
Rhoda H., 3. See "Water Colors" Searle, Alice A., 1 Shuttleworth, Claire, 1 Siboni, Emma B.,
5 Strean, Maria J., 2 Thayer, Theodora W., 3 Turner, Helen M., 3 Underwood, Edith B., 1 Volk,
Ellen S., 1 Weidner, Carl, 3 West, Anne Shaw, 1 Wing, Alice B., 1. Bronze medal Worrall, R.,
2 Total--Artists, 24; works, 48

Mural Paintings and Designs

Armstrong, Helen M., Blashfield, Edwin H., 14. Gold medal Breck, George W., 2. Silver medal
Burgess, Ida J., 1 Burroughs, Bryson, 3. See "Oil Paintings" Cowles, Maud Alice, 1 Cox, Kenyon,
2. See "Oil Paintings" Crawford, Earl S., 1 Curtis, Constance, 1 Dielman, Frederick. 6 Deming,
Edward W., 3. Bronze medal Dodge, W. de Leftwich, 3 Kaufman, J. F., 1 Kline, William F., 1.
See "Oil Paintings" Lamb, Ella Condie, 1 Lauber, Joseph, 5 Lichtenauer, J. M., Jr., 2 Low,
Will H., 6 Marsh, Frederic Dana, 4. See "Oil Paintings" O'Brien, Madeleine, 1 Sears, Taber,
2 Sewell, Robert V. V., 2. See "Oil Paintings" Shean, Charles M., 1. Bronze medal Shirlaw,
Walter, 3. See "Oil Paintings" Turner, C. Y., 5. Silver medal Vaillant, Louis D., 2 Walker,
Henry Oliver, 10. See "Oil Paintings" Wenzell, A. B., 2. Silver medal Total--Artists, 30; works, 92

Drawings for Illustrations

Chapman, Carlton T., 1 Child, Edward B., 3 Clay, John Cecil, 3 Cowles, Genevieve, 1 Cowles,
Maud A., 1. Bronze medal Du Mond, Frank V., 5. See "Oil Paintings" Edwards, George Wharton,
3 Fogarty, Thomas, 5 Gibson, Charles Dana, 3. Silver medal Gillam, Victor, 3 Glackens, W. J.,
8. Bronze medal Hambidge, Jay, 1 Hinton, Charles L., 6 Hitchcock, Lucius W., 4. Silver medal
Hutt, Henry, 1 Keller, Arthur I., 6. Gold medal Lawrence, William H., 1 Leigh, William H.,
2 Leyendecker, F. X., 5 Linson, Corwin K., 2 Loeb, Louis, 5. Silver medal Orson, Lowell, 6
McCarter, Henry, 3. Silver medal McLane, M. Jean, 2. See "Oil Paintings" Mora, F. Luis, 1.
See "Oil Paintings" Parrish, Maxfield, 2 Penfold, Edward, 5 Reuterdahl, H., 5 Rhead, Louis
J., 3 Rosenmeyer, B. J., 1 Sherwood, Rosina E., 4 Shinn, Florence S., 2 Smith, W. Granville,
1 Steele, Frederic Door, 5. Bronze medal Sterner, Albert, 2 Stevens, W. D., 3 Taylor, C. Jay,
3 Van der Veer, Mary, 1. See "Oil Paintings" Walcott, H. M., 1. See "Oil Paintings" Wenzell,
A. B., 4. See "Mural Paintings and Designs" White, C. H., 1 Winslow, Eleanor C., 1 Zogbaum,
R. F., 2 Total--Artists, 43; works, 127

The following commemorative award was also conferred in this group:

La Farge, John, commemorating distinguished service in art. Medal of
  honor

GROUP TEN

Engravings and Lithographs

Etchings and Engravings

(Other than Wood Engravings)

Bacher, Otto H., 4. Silver medal Beckwith, Carroll, 1 Bellows, A. F., 4 Bloodgood, R. F., 2
Blum, Robert F. (deceased), 3 Chapman, Carlton T., 8 Dielman, Frederick, 2 Farrar, Henry (deceased),
1 Guy, Seymour J., 1 Hale, Walter, 6 Hambidge, Jay, 1 Hovenden, Thomas (deceased), 2 Jones,
H. Bolton, 1 King, James S., 1 Lathrop, W. L., 4 Laube, Joseph, 7 Lewis, Arthur Allen, 3. Bronze
medal Lippincott, W. H., 3 Loewenburg, N., 2 Mielatz, Charles F. W., 21 Moran, Mary Nimmo (deceased),
7 Nicoll, J. C., 9 Osgood, Harry H., 7 Reich, Jacques, 2 Robbins, Horace W. (deceased), 1 Roth,
Ernest D., 4 Sandreczki, Otto W., 1 Schilling, Alexander, 10 Schneider, Otto J., 5 Scholl,
E., 2 Senseney, George, 1 Shelton, W. H., 1 Smillie, James D., 12 Sterne, Maurice J., 13. Bronze
medal Trowbridge, Vaughan, 7 Vondrous, John C., 6 White, Charles H., 3. Bronze medal Weir,
J. Alden, 21. Silver medal Wood, Thomas W. (deceased), 1 Yale, Leroy M., 7 Yewell, George H.,
3 Total--Artists, 41; works, 200

Wood Engravings

Bernstrom, Victor, 2. Silver medal Chadwick, C. W., 4. Bronze medal Cole, Timothy, 10. Grand
prize Evans, John W., 5 French, Frank, 1. Gold medal Heineman, E., 2 Klotz, H., 1. Bronze medal
Kruell, Gustav, 8. Gold medal Merrill, Hiram C., 5. Bronze medal Northcote, Stafford M., 1.
Bronze medal Watt, William G., 1 Wolf, Henry, 29. See "Commemorative Award" Total--Artists,
12; works, 69

The following commemorative award was also conferred in this group:

Wolf, Henry, commemorating distinguished service in art. Medal of honor

GROUP ELEVEN

Sculpture

Adams, Herbert, 5. Gold medal Alfano, Vincenzo, 2 Bissell, George E., 1. Silver medal Bitter,
Karl T. F., 4. Gold medal Borglum, Gutzon, 8. Gold medal Borglum, Solon, 9. Gold medal Boyle,
John J., 5. Silver medal Brenner, Victor David, 28. Silver medal Bush-Brown, H. K., 7 Carpenter,
Margaret S.; 1. Bronze medal Eberle, Mrs. A. V., 1. Bronze medal Flanaghan, John, 4. Silver
medal French, Daniel Chester, 4 Glenny, Alice R., 1 Goodwin, Mrs. Frederick, 1 Harvey, Eli,
9. Bronze medal Heber, C. A., 1. Bronze medal Hyatt, Mrs. A. V., 2. Bronze medal Jaegers, Albert,
1. Bronze medal Konti, Isidore, 2. Gold medal Linder, Henry, 1. Bronze medal Longman, Evelyn
B., 4. Silver medal Lopez, Charles A., 6. Gold medal Lukeman, Augustus, 1. Bronze medal MacNeil,
Hermon A., 3 Mears, Helen F., 1. Silver medal Miranda, Fernando, 1 Niehaus, Charles H., 8.
Gold medal Piccirilli, Attilio, 4. Silver medal Piccirilli, Furio, 1. Silver medal Proctor,
A. Phimister, 4. Gold medal Rhind, J. Massey, 1. Bronze medal Roth, Frederick G. R., 7. Silver
medal Saint Gaudens, Augustus, 1. See "Commemorative Award" Salvatore, Victor, 1. Bronze medal
Schwarzott, Maximilian, 1. Bronze medal Scudder, Janet, 1. Bronze medal Stillman, Effie, 3.
Bronze medal Tonetti, F. M. L., 3. Bronze medal Triebel, C. E., 1 Usher, Leila, 1 Vonnoh, Bessie
Potter, 10. Gold medal Ward, Elsie, 1. Bronze medal Ward, John Quincy Adams, 1. See "Commemorative
Award" Warner, Olin L. (deceased), 2 Weinert, Albert, 1 Weinmann, Adolf A., 5. Silver medal
Yandell, Enid, 1. Bronze medal Zolnay, George Julian, 2 Total--Artists, 49; works, 173

The following commemorative awards were also conferred in this group:
Augustus Saint Gaudens, commemorating distinguished service in
  art. Medal of honor
John Ouincy Adams Ward, commemorating distinguished service
  in art. Medal of honor

GROUP TWELVE

Architecture

Atterbury, Grosvenor, 3. Silver medal Babb, Cook & Willard, 2 Boring & Tilton, 6. Silver medal
Brunner, Arnold W., 4. Gold medal Carrere, Brunner & Burnham, 6 Carrere & Hastings, 7. Gold
medal Coulter, W. L., 2 Flagg, Ernest, 14 Friedlander, J. H., 3 Gilbert, Cass, 3. Gold medal
Green & Wicks, 1 Hardenbergh, H. J., 1 Heins & La Farge, 4. Silver medal Langton, D. W., 1
Lord & Hewlett, 4 Total--Architects, 15; works, 61

The following commemorative award was also conferred:

John M. Carrere. Gold medal

GROUP FOURTEEN

Original Objects of Art Workmanship

Applied Arts

Adams, Ralph R., 2
Archer, Annie M., 1
Bell, Peter, 1
Binns, Charles F., 5. Silver medal
Burdick, Bessie, 2
Crosbee, Mrs. W. G., 2
Farnham, Paulding, 15. Gold medal
Foote, Florence, 4. Bronze medal
Fry, Marshall, 7
Hicks, Amy M., 2
Hoagland, Jane, 3
Lamb, Frederick S., 1
Lawrence, F. Walter, 27
Leonard, Anna B., 7. Silver medal
MacNeil, Mrs. Carol B., 5. Bronze medal
Perkins, Mrs. Annie F., 2
Perkins, Lucy F.4. Bronze medal
Pond, T. H., 1
Randolph, Isabella, 2
Robineau, Mrs. A. A., 7
Sanders, Bertha D., 1
Solon, L. M., 1
Tiffany, Louis C. (designer), 79. Silver medal
Volk, Mrs. Douglas, 2. Silver medal
Volk, Wendell D., 1
Volkmar, Charles, 9. Bronze medal
Von Rydingsvaard, Karl, 1
Wolrath, Frederic E., 2. Bronze medal
Yandell, Charles R., 9
  Total--Artists, 29; works, 205

The following special commemorative awards were also conferred in the Department of Art:

Harry W. Watrous, for valuable assistance in the formation of the
  exhibit of the United States section.

-----|-------|-------|-------|--------|-------|-------|------|------|------|------
     |       |       |       | Draw-  | Etch- |       |      |      |      |
     | Water |       |       | ings   | ings  |       |      |      |      |
Oil  | Color |       | Mural |  for   | and   | Wood  |      | Archi| Ap-  |
Paint|  and  | Minia-| Paint | Illus- | Engrav| Engrav| Sculp| -tec-| plied|
-ing | Pastel| tures | -ings | tration| -ings | -ings | -ture| ture | Arts |Totals
-----|-------|-------|-------|--------|-------|-------|------|------|------|------
[*]Total number of artists represented in the United States Section.    54  22                20  10  13         10     129
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AWARDS                  |-----------------|-----------|
Comm.    { To all U.S.
Gold     {   artists             1                 1     2      -    -      4
Medals   { To New York
of Honor {   artists             1                 1     2      -    -      4
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         { To all U.S.
Grand    {   artists             1                 1     1      -    3      6
Prizes   { To New York
         {   artists
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         { To all U.S.
Gold     {   artists            36                 4     12     7    8     67
Medals   { To New York
         {   artists            19                 3      9     4    1     36
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         { To all U.S.
Silver   {   artists            99                12     19    11   15    156
Medals   { To New York
         {   artists            58                 7     10     3    4     82
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         { To all U.S.
Bronze   {   artists           103                17     29     4   22    175
Medals   { To New York
         {   artists            52                10     16     -    5     83
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTALS
To all United States
  artists                      240                35     63    22   48    408
To New York artists            130                21     37     7   10    205
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Special  {Total to
Comm.    { U.S.      7                                                    415
Gold     { To New
Medals   { Yorkers   3                                                    208
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Footnote 1: In the report of the Superintendent of the Bureau of Sales, the Paintings sold
approximated in value $70,000; the Engravings, $900; the Sculpture, $2,000, and the works of
Applied Art, $7,500.

Out of the 904 oil paintings, 241 were owned by private parties (many being portraits) and
were not for sale. Of the 662 works for sale, the 87 sold constituted nearly 13% of the whole
number. The oil paintings contributed by New York artists which were not for sale numbered
138, leaving 281 for sale. The 54 works sold constituted approximately 20% of the New York
pictures offered for sale.

Of the 314 water colors, 73 were not for sale. There were 241 for sale. The 34 works sold were
approximately 13% of the entire number offered. Of the 194 water colors by New York artists,
46 were not for sale. Of the 148 works for sale, the 22 sold is nearly 15% of the number of
works offered by New York artists in this medium.]

THE INTERNATIONAL JURY

The International Jury in the Department of Art was composed of the following members

United States.--Thomas Allen, E. A. Batchelder, S. S. Beman, Hugh H. Breckenridge, Richard
E. Brooks, Carlton T. Chapman (New York), William M. Chase (New York), Ralph Clarkson, Walter
Cook (New York), Conlin Campbell Cooper (New York), Charles Percy Davis, Frank Miles Day, Lockwood
de Forest (New York), Frederick Dielman (New York), Frank Duveneck, Daniel Chester French (New
York), Mrs. Eugene Field, R. Swain Gifford (New York), Charles Grafly, Will H. Low (New York),
Hermon A. MacNeil (New York), Elizabeth St. John Mathews, J. L. Mauran, C. F. W. Mielatz (New
York), James Craig Nicoll (New York), Joseph Pennell, Mary Solari, Theodore C. Steele, Alice
Barber Stevens, Edmund C. Tarbell, S. Seymour Thomas, Alexander T. Van Laer (New York), Bessie
Potter Vonnoh (New York), Robert W. Vonnoh (New York), C. Howard Walker, H. Langford Warren,
Rose Weld, Frederic Allen Whiting, Carleton Wiggins (New York), Henry Wolf (New York), Edmund
H. Wuerpel

Argentia.--Eduardo Schiaffino, George Julian Zolnay (New York)

Austria.--Dr. Paul Cohn, Adolph Kraus, Gustav Niederlein, Nicolaus Staits, William J. King

Belgium.--Guillaume de Groot, Ernest Verlant

Brazil.---J. Americo dos Santos

Bulgaria.--Charles M. Kurtz (New York)

Canada.--Paul Harney

Cuba.--Gonzalo de Quesada

Germany.--William J. Baer (New York), Erich Hoesel, Richard Mueller, Hans von Petersen, Max
Schlichting, Fr. von Thiersch

Holland.--William H. Howe (New York), Willy Martens, John C. Schueller, Herbert Vos

Hungary.--Bertelon Karlovsky, George Julian Zolnay (New York)

Italy.--Professor Pepoti Cantalamessa, Il Marchese Majnoni d'Itagnano, Ugo Ojetti

Japan.--Tooru Iwamura, Heromich Shugio

Mexico.--Isidoro Aldasoro

Portugal.--Marcel Horteloup

Russia.--William H. Fox, J. M. Godberg, Emil Vautier

Sweden.--Anshelm Schultzberg, Dr. Eugene Wagner

From the above jurors the juries for the several groups of the classification were made up--each
group jury being international in character.

LOAN COLLECTION OF PAINTINGS

A prominent feature of the United States section of the Department of Art was a loan collection
composed of especially noteworthy paintings from some of the most noted private collections
of the United States. This collection was organized by Mr. Will H. Low, of New York. It contained
122 paintings representing many schools and periods. Of these works forty-three were lent by
New York owners, as follows:

George J. Gould.--Domenico Ghirlandajo, Rembrandt van Ryn ("The Standard Bearer"), Frans Hals,
Aert van der Neer, Gerard Don, Jean Marc Nattier, Sir Joshua Reynolds ("The Duchess of Marlborough"),
Thomas Gainsborough; John Constable, J. M. W. Turner, Eugene Fromentin, Constant Troyon, Theodore
Rosseau ("The Charcoal Burners' Hut" and "Le Cure, Evening"), J.B.C. Corot ("Le Dance des Amours"),
N.V. Diaz, Mariano Fortuny and J.L. Gerome

Helen Miller Gould.--Jean Francois Millet ("Washerwomen"), J. L. E. Meissonier ("The Smoker"),
Rosa Bonheur, Alfred Stevens and Ludwig Knaus ("The Children's Party")

Estate of Jay Gould.--J.B.C. Corot ("Antique Dance") and Emile van Marcke

Duraud-Ruel.--Alexandre Gabriel Decamps, Eugene Delacroix, Gustave Courbet, Eugene Fromentin,
Francois Bonvin (two examples), J.B.C. Corot, and Jules Dupre

Charles Fairchild.--William Morris Hunt and Elihu Vedder

Lockwood de Forest.--Frederick E. Church

National Academy of Design.--Octave Tassaert and R. Caton Woodville

Cottier & Co.--Sir John Everett Millais

Charles M. Kurtz.--Anton Mauve ("Sheep on the Dunes")

Julia Wilder Kurtz.--Thomas Couture

CHAPTER XI

Agriculture and Live Stock Exhibit and Schedule of Awards

AGRICULTURE AND LIVE STOCK EXHIBIT

By J. H. DURKEE

Superintendent

The New York State Commission, in July, 1903, appointed J. H. Durkee, of Sandy Hill, N. Y.,
superintendent of agriculture, live stock and dairy products, with John McCann, of Elmira,
Howard Moon, of Cobleskill, Theodore Horton, of Elmira, and W. A. Smith as assistants in the
department of agriculture, W. W. Smallwood, of Warsaw, and W. A. McCoduck, of Sandy Hill, having
direct supervision of live stock and dairy products respectively. George A. Smith, of Geneva,
was superintendent for collecting dairy products. These gentlemen did the work assigned them
faithfully and well, which is fully attested by the number of grand prizes and medals won in
these departments.

SCOPE OF EXHIBIT

New York State has no distinctive agricultural product as has many of the other, especially
some of the western, States but grows nearly everything in larger or smaller quantities that
is grown in the north temperate zone.

In collecting and installing this exhibit, the aim was to gather these varied products and
arrange them so as to show the real grain or vegetable to the best advantage rather than to
show a fancifully arranged display of such products as would be of little or no value to those
interested in practical agriculture. With this end in view, each section of the State was drawn
upon for the best samples of the staple crops of that section. These samples were carefully
inspected by competent judges, and only those of real merit were placed in the collection for
exhibit. So thoroughly was this work of selection done that a large proportion of the samples
received an award.

LABELING EACH SPECIMEN

That the exhibit might be of the greatest value to those most interested in agricultural pursuits,
on each sample was placed a card giving the name and variety of the sample, also the name and
post office address of the grower. Every day men could be seen with pencil and paper in hand
taking names and addresses for future correspondence.

CONTINUOUS DISPLAY OF VEGETABLES

New York was one of the few States that had its exhibit complete at the opening of the Exposition,
and was the only State that made a large and continuous display of fresh vegetables. Its display
was greatly admired and favorably commented upon by the press, as well as by individuals. From
the opening of the Exposition until the crop of 1904 was ready, the tables of the New York
exhibit were kept filled with the standard vegetables of 1903, which had been placed in cold
storage and were brought out as needed.

At the close of the Exposition, December 1, 1904, New York had over forty varieties of potatoes
as well as many other vegetables on exhibition that were gathered in 1903, having been out
of the ground over fifteen months. To the inexperienced eye, they could not be distinguished
from the crop of 1904. In October and November, New York's vegetable display was unusually
fine. The judges who passed upon it said it was the finest collection of vegetables they had
ever seen.

AWARDS

The catalogue of exhibitors which follows shows conclusively that New York is truly the Empire
State so far as agricultural products are concerned. It was the only State that was awarded
a grand prize on fresh vegetables alone. J. M. Thorburn & Co., of New York, Glendale Stock
Farm, Glens Falls, and Cornell University, Ithaca, also received grand prizes on vegetables.

Catalogue of the Exhibitors in the Department of Agriculture, with the Award, if Any, Received
by Each

GROUP EIGHTY-FOUR

Vegetable Food Products--Agricultural Seeds

Alms House Farm, Varyburg
    Wheat
    Oats--White Michigan
J. B. Anderson, Kennedy. Bronze medal
    Barley--Six-Rowed
    Oats--Swedish
R. I. Anderson, Florida
    Corn--Eight-Rowed Red
C. S. Baldwin, Wellsville. Bronze medal
    Corn--Red Glazed, ears
W. H. Bellamy, Wellsville. Bronze medal
    Oats--Swede, White Russian
F. J. Bellinger, Hammond. Silver medal
    Oats--Clydesdale
E. A. Bentley, Wellsville. Bronze medal
    Corn--Eight-Rowed Yellow, ears
T. T. Blodgett, Fishkill. Silver medal
    Rye--Dark
    Oats--White Swede
L. G. Brainard, Ellington. Silver medal
    Rye--Winter
C. E. H. Breckon, Clarence. Bronze medal
    Beans--White Kidney
Charles Brian, Perry. Silver medal
    Wheat--Klondike
Briggs Bros., Rochester. Bronze medal
    Corn--Leaming, Golden Beauty
George Bronson & Son, Bath. Bronze medal
    Oats--New Lincoln
    Buckwheat--Gray
    Wheat--Gold Coin
    Corn--Dibbs' Ninety-Day-Eight-Rowed Yellow, ears
L. M. Bronson, Bath
    Wheat--White Winter
Brooks Bros., Painted Post. Silver medal
    Wheat--Gold Bullion
    Buckwheat--Silver Gray
    Corn--Red Beauty Pop
    Oats--Russian, Lincoln, White Swede
George W. Brooks, Painted Post. Bronze medal
    Buckwheat--Silver Gray
    Beans--Coffee
    Mustard--Black
M. D. Bennett, Elmira, R. F. D. No. 1. Silver medal
    Buckwheat--Silver Hull, Japanese
Lewis J. Brundage, Starkey. Silver medal
    Wheat--Duck
    Buckwheat--Silver Gray
    Wheat--Gold Coin, Prosperity
    Barley--Two Rowed
    Beans--Red Kidney, White Kidney, Marrow
    Barley--Hulless
R. R. Buck, Warsaw. Gold medal
    Wheat
Isaac Budlong, Scottsville. Bronze medal
    Wheat--Prosperity
W. Carroll, LaGrangeville. Bronze medal
    Oats.--White
    Corn.--Early Mastadon, ears
Charles Caswell, Abbott. Bronze medal
    Corn.--White Red Glaze, ears
W. L. Chapin, Warsaw. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Malay Winter
Perry E. Chappel, Warsaw. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Fultz
D. E. Chase, Warsaw. Silver medal
    Wheat.-Red Clawson
    Oats.--Lincoln
C. W. Clark, Skaneateles. Silver medal
    Collection of Teasels
J. H. Clute, Painted Post. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Twelve-Rowed Yellow
    Wheat.-Long Medt
    Beans.--Burlingame's Prolific, Marrow
Miles Colburn, Ellington. Bronze medal
    Oats.--Early Siberian
Harry Cole, Caneadea
    Corn.--Yellow, ears
M. D. Corbett, Bath. Silver medal
    Rye.--White
Cornell University, Ithaca. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--White Chall Medt, Reliable
F. H. Crowley, Painted Post. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Eight-Rowed Yellow
    Buckwheat.--Silver Hull, Small Silver Gray
E. Crippen, Horseheads. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--Clawson
Crossman Bros., Rochester. Grand prize
    Field, Garden, and Flower Seeds
    Peas.--Crossman's First and Best, Crossman's Extra Early
      True, Early Kent, Early June, Dan O'Rourke, Philadelphia
      Extra Early, Alaska, Grandun, American Wonder, Nott's Excelsior,
      Extra Early Premium Gem, McLean's Little Gem, Surprise
      or Eclipse, Tom Thumb, Abundance, Advancers McLeans,
      Dwarf Daisy, Dwarf Champion, Everbearing, Heroine, Horsford's
      Market Garden, Pride of the Market, Stratagem Imp,
      Shropshire Hero, Yorkshire Hero, Duke of Albany, Telephone,
    Telegraph, Champion of England, Forty Fold, Long Island
      Mammoth, Large White Marrowfat, Black-Eyed Marrowfat,
      Canada Field, Mammoth Podded Sugar, Melting Sugar, Dwarf
      Gray-Seeded Sugar, Tall Gray-Seeded Sugar, Laxton's Alpha
    Beans.--Early Dwarf Prolific Black Wax or Butter, Early
      Dwarf, Challenge Black Wax or Butter, Early Pencil Pod
      Black Wax, Early Dwarf Improved Golden Wax, Early Dwarf
      Black-Eyed Wax, Early Dwarf Golden-Eyed Wax, Early
      Dwarf Red Flageolet Wax, Early Dwarf Refugee Wax, Early
      Dwarf Wardwell's Kidney Wax, Early Dwarf Dair's White
      Kidney Wax, Yosemite Mammoth Wax, Improved Early Red
      Valentine, Early Mohawk, Early Yellow Six Weeks, Early
      China Red-Eye, Early Refugee, Burpee's Stringless Green Pod,
      Refugee or Thousand to One, Dwarf Horticultural, Broad
      Windsor, Improved Red Kidney, Royal Dwarf or White
      Kidney, White Marrowfat, White Medium, Boston Small Pea
      Bean, Henderson's Dwarf Lima, Burpee's Bush Lima, Dreer's
      Bush Lima, New Prolific Pickle, Coffee or Sofa Bean, New
      Golden Cluster Wax, German Black Wax, Horticultural or
      Speckled Cranberry, Kentucky Wonder, Lazy Wife's, Lima
      Early Jersey, Lima King of the Garden, Lima Large White,
      Lima Dreer's Improved, Lima Small or Sieve, Southern Prolific,
      Scarlet Runners, White Dutch Runners, Dutch Case Knife,
      Red Speckled cut Short or Corn Hill
    Corn.--First of All, Adams' Extra Early, Early Red Cory,
      Early White Cory, Early Mammoth White Cory, Early Marblehead,
      Early Minnesota, Early Adams, Early Sweet or Sugar,
      Shakers' Early, Perry's Hybrid or Ballard, Crosby's Early,
      Moore's Early Concord, Early Mammoth, Black Mexican,
      Crossman's Genesee Sweet, Stowell's Evergreen, Country Gentleman,
      Large Late Mammoth, Clark's None Such, Egyptian
      or Washington Mammoth, Hickox's Improved, Old Colony,
      Parshing White Pearl, Parshing White Rice, Angel of Midnight
      Yellow Dent, Extra Early Huron Yellow Dent, King
      of the Earliest Yellow Dent, Golden Beauty Yellow Dent,
      Golden Dent Yellow Dent, Longfellow Yellow Flint, Leaming
      Improved Yellow Dent, Pride of the North Yellow Dent, Sanford
      White Flint, Mastadon, Improved Hickory King White
      Dent, Iowa Red Mine Yellow Dent, Golden Dew Drop, Southern
      Sheep Tooth, Red Cob Ensilage, Sweet or Sugar
    Cow Peas.--Black, Black Eyed, Clay, Whip-Poor-Will,
      Wonderful
    Buckwheat.--New Japanese, Silver Hull
    Artichoke.--French Green Globe
    Asparagus.--Conover's Colossal, Palmetto, Barr's Mammoth,
      Columbian Mammoth White
    Beets.--Eclipse, Dark Red Egyptian Turnip, Crosby's Dark
      Red Egyptian, Crimson Globe, Detroit Dark Red Turnip, Edmand's
      Blood Turnip, Extra Early Turnip Bassano, Early
      Blood Turnip Bastians, Lentz's Early Blood Turnip, Dewing's
      Early Blood Turnip, Long Dark Blood, Red Globe, Yellow,
      Mammoth Long Red, Norbitian Giant Long Red, Yellow Ovoid,
      Golden Tankard, French White Sugar, Lane's Improved White
      Sugar, Vilmorin's Improved White Sugar, Klein Wanzleben
    Broccoli.--Early Purple Cape, Early Large White
    Brussells Sprouts.--Tall Extra, Dwarf Improved
    Cabbage.--Early Jersey Wakefield, Early Large Charleston
      Wakefield, Early Express, All Seasons, Premium Flat Dutch,
      Louisville Drumhead, Danish Round Winter or Baldhead,
      Stone Mason Marblehead, Hollander
    Carrots.--Chantenay, Half Long Scarlet, Early Scarlet
      Short Horn, Danvers Half Long Orange, Mastodon White
      Intermediate, Large White Belgian
    Cauliflower.--Early London or Dutch
    Celery.--Golden Self-Blanching, French, Golden Heart or
      Golden Dwarf, Sandringham Dwarf White, Golden Rose or
      Rose-Ribbed Paris
    Corn Salad.--Large Seeded, Improved Green Cabbaging
    Cucumbers.--Cumberland, Early Russian, Green Cluster,
      Green Prolific, Jersey Pickling, Early Frame, Early White
      Spice, Livingston's Emerald, Nichol's Medium Green, Long
      Green
    Chicory.--Large Rooted
    Collards.--True Georgia or Creole
    Cress.--Curled or Peppergrass, True Water Cress
    Egg Plant.--Improved New York Purple Spineless
    Endive.--White Curled
    Kale.--Semi-Dwarf Moss Curled
    Kohl Rabi.--Early White Vienna
    Leek.--Large Carentan Winter
    Lettuce.--Crossman's New Improved, Early White Cabbage,
      Early Curled Simpson, Black-Seeded Simpson, Early Prize
      Head, Big Boston, Grand Rapids, All the Year Round, Yellow-Seeded
      Butter
      Musk Melons.--Extra Early Hackensack, Fine Large Green
       Nutmeg, Baltimore Acme Cantaloupe, Jenny Lind, Montreal
      Market, Bay View, Cosmopolitan, Long Island Beauty, Paul
      Rose or Petoskey, Delmonico, Early Christiana, Banana, Tip
      Top
    Water Melons.--Cole's Early, Green Gold, Florida Favorite,
      Pride of Georgia, Hungarian Honey, Seminole, Black Spanish,
      Phinney's Early, Ice Cream White-Seeded, jumbo or Jones,
      Striped Gipsy, Georgia Rattle Snake, Mammoth Iron Clad,
      Kolba Gem, New Dixie, Volga, Kleckley's Sweet, Iceberg
    Mustard.--White London or English, Giant Southern Curled
      Mushroom Spawn.--Best English
    Okra.--White Velvet Pod
    Parsley.--Champion Moss-Curled
    Parsnips.--Long White Dutch, Imp. Hollow Crown, Guernsey or Cup
    Pumpkins.--Imp. Cushaw, Mammoth Tours, King of Mammoth,
      Connecticut Field
    Onions.--Early Red Globe, Large Red Wethersfield, Yellow
      Dutch or Strasburg, Yellow Danvers, Yellow Danvers Globe,
      Prize Taker, White Globe, White Portugal or Silver Skin,
      New White Queen, Bermuda White, Large Italian, Large Dark
      Red Bassano
    Peppers.--Large Bell or Bull Nose
    Radishes.--Early Scarlet Globe, White-Tipped Scarlet Turnip,
      Golden Globe Turnip-Rooted, French Breakfast, Early
      Deep Scarlet, White Strasburg or Hospital White Stuttgart,
      Large Scarlet Short Top, Long Brightest Scarlet, Long White
      Vienna or Lady Finger, New Chartier or Sheppard, Long
      White Naples, Chinese Rose Winter, California Mammoth
      White Winter, Japanese Early Mammoth Sakura Jima
    Rhubarb.--Lennaens, Victoria Myatts, St. Martins
    Salsify.-Salsify or Vegetable Oyster, Mammoth Sandwich
      Island
    Spinach.--New Giant, Prickley or Winter, Long Standing,
      Victoria Long Standing, New Zealand
    Squash.--Early Yellow Bush Scallop, Early White Bush
      Scallop, Early Golden Crookneck, Early White Crookneck,
      Mammoth Golden Crookneck, Perfect Gem, Boston Marrow,
      Hubbard Improved, Warty Hubbard, Pike's Peak or Sibley,
      Turban or Turk's Cap, Butman
    Tobacco.--Connecticut Seed Leaf, Conqueror, Little Dutch,
      Orinoco Yellow, Tuckahoe, White Burley
      Sunflowers.-Mammoth Russian
    Tomatoes.-Dwarf Monarch, Matchless, Dwarf Aristocrat,
      Long Keeper, Early Atlantic Prize, New Stone, Ignotum,
      Paragon, Scoville's Hubird, Trophy, Queen Red, Acme, Dwarf
      Champion, Imperial, Ponderosa, Golden Queen or Sunrise,
      Peach, Plum-Shaped Yellow, Red Cherry, Strawberry or
      Ground Cherry
    Turnips.--Milan Extra Early, Purple Top, Early White Flat
      Dutch Strap Leaf, Early Six Weeks or Snowball, Purple Top
      Strap Leaf, Purple Top White Globe, Purple Top Scotch or
      Aberdeen, Amber Globe, Seven Top, Skirving's Imp. Purple
      Top, White Sweet or White Russian, Sweet German
  Miscellaneous
    Beggar Weed
    Broom Corn.--Evergreen
    Canary
    Chafas
    Hemp--Russian
    Honey Locust
    Kaffir Corn--White, Red
    Osage--Orange
    Rape--Dwarf Essex
    Sugar Cane--Early Amber, Orange, Teosinte
    Vetches--Spring
    Wild Rice
    Herbs--Anise, Balm, Borage, Caraway, Chervil Curled,
      Coriander, Dill, Horehound, Lavender, Rosemary, Rue, Sage
      (English Broadleaf), Summer Savory, Sweet Basil, Sweet Fennel,
      Sweet Marjoram, Tansy, Thyme (Broadleaf) Wormwood
    Grasses--Red Top Fancy Clean, Kentucky Blue Fancy
      Clean, Bermuda Grass, Fescue Meadow, Orchard Grass, Rye
      Grass (Perennial), Sweet Vernal, Hungarian Grass, Millet
      (German, Golden Japanese, Barnyard, Siberian), Lawn Grass
      (Crossman's Park Mixture), Rye Grass (Italian)
    Clovers.--White Dutch, Alsike or Swedish, Alfalfa or
      Lucerne, Crimson, Medium Red, Timothy
    Flower Seeds.--Abronia Umbellata, Ageratune Mexicanum
      Blue, Alyssum Sweet, Amaranthus, Antirrhinum Majus Snap
      Dragon, Asters (Branching Mixed), Balsam Double Mixed,
      Bartonia Aurea, Calendula Prince of Orange, Calliopsis Mixed,
      Canary Bird Flower, Candytuft (White, Mixed), Canna Mixed,
      Carnation Mixed, Celosia Dwarf Mixed Cockscomb, Centanrea,
      Cyanns Bachelor Button, Cobaea Scandens Purple, Cosmos
      Mixed, Cypress Vine Mixed, Double Daisy Mixed, Eschscholtzia
      Californica, Gaillardia Lorensiana, Gomphrena Globosa,
      Gourd (Apple Shaped, Bottle Shaped, Dipper Shaped, Egg
      White, Hercules Club, Mock Orange, Pear Shape, Sugar
      Trough), Helichrysum, Hollyhock Double Mixed Chaters, Ice
      Plant, Larkspur (Perennial Mixed), Lobelia Speciosa Crystal
      Palace, Lupinus Mixed Colors, Marigold French Dwarf, Martynia
      Probosidea, Marvel of Peru, Mixed Four O'Clock, Moon
      Flower Cross-bred or Hybrid, Mignonette Sweet Large-
      Flowered, Morning Glory, (Convolvulus Major, Giant
      Japanese), Myosotis Palastris Forget-Me-Not, Nasturtium
      (Dwarf Mixed, Tall Mixed), Pansy Very Large Flowering
      Mixed, Petunia Mixed Hybrid, Phlox Drummond Grandiflori
      Mixed, Poppy Carnation Double Mixed, Portulaca Single
      Mixed, Ricinus Sanguineus (Castor Oil Bean), Salpiglossis
      Large Mixed, Scabiosa Majus Dwarf Mixed, Smilax Boston,
      Stock German Dwarf Mixed, Sunflower Double Globosus
      Fislutosus, Swan River Daisy, Sweet William (double), Thunbergia
      Mixed, Verbenas Hybrid Mixed, Wild Cucumber,
      Quinnia Double Dwarf Mixed, Sunflower White Seeded,
      Phoenis (Reclinata, Canariensis), Dracaena (Indivisa, Australis),
      Snails, Wonus, Dolishos, Lablab White, Lagums
      Ovatus, Avena Steralis, Coix Lachrymo, Zea Japinica, Ameranthus
      Candatus
    Sweet Peas.--America, Broeatton, Emily Eckford, Fire Fly,
      Katherine Tracy, Navy Blue, Queen of England, Crossman's
      Special Mixed
James J. Culbertson, Groveland. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Gold Bullion, Dawson's Golden Chaff
    Beans.--Marrow
Frank H. Cupp, Painted Post. Bronze medal
    Rye.--White
Albert J. Davis, Spencerport. Bronze medal
    Corn
Hiram Davis, Gansevoort. Bronze medal
    Corn
C. A. Davidson, Caton. Bronze medal
    Oats
W. H. Dettoes, Johnsonville. Bronze medal
    Corn
Henry Drudge, Clarence. Bronze medal
    Buckwheat
J. H. Durkee, Florida. Silver medal
    Wheat
F. E. Ebbing, Syracuse. Silver medal
    Seeds
Wm. Edminster, Painted Post. Silver medal
    Wheat and Oats
Frank H. Emery, Hornellsville. Silver medal
    Wheat
G. W. Engdalil, Ellington. Silver medal
    Barley and Oats
Frank A. Erwire, Painted Post. Silver medal
    Oats
P. E. Eysaman, Hammond. Bronze medal
    Corn
James Faucett, Bath. Silver medal
    Oats
Henry M. Fisher, Warsaw. Gold medal
    Wheat
Frank E. Ford, Painted Post. Bronze medal
    Grain
M. C. Frisbee, Ellington. Bronze medal
    Barley
M. E. Ferguson, Florida. Silver medal
    Wheat and Oats
M. L. Gamble, Groveland. Bronze medal
    Beans
John Gerow, Washingtonville. Bronze medal
    Corn
M. O. Gilbert, Ellington. Gold medal
    Buckwheat
Samuel Green, Florida. Bronze medal
    Buckwheat
John E. Griffith, Ellington. Silver medal
    Oats
L. P. Gunson & Co., Rochester. Gold medal
    Oats
W. H. Haight, Fishkill. Bronze medal
    Wheat
W. H. Hall, Bath. Bronze medal
    Wheat
G. L. Halstead, Arlington. Bronze medal
    Wheat
J. M. Ham, Washington Hollow. Bronze medal
    Rye
George Harder, Bath. Bronze medal
    Wheat
A. G. Happul, Johnsonville. Bronze medal
    Corn
E. P. Harris, Elmira. Gold medal
    Beans
Charles Hathaway, Hartford. Bronze medal
    Oats
I. C. Hawkins, Middletown. Bronze medal
    Corn
Joe Hetzel, Florida. Silver medal
    Rye and Corn
J. M. Hewlett, Bath. Bronze medal
    Wheat
G. K. Higbie, Rochester. Gold medal
    Oats
C. B. Hill, Wellsville. Bronze medal
    Oats
Frank N. Holbrook, Charlton. Silver medal
    Buckwheat
John Houston, Florida. Bronze medal
    Grain
James K. Houston, Goshen. Silver medal
    Rye and Oats
J. C. Howard, Irondequoit. Silver medal
    Corn and Beans
John S. Howell, Elmira. Bronze medal
    Wheat
George W. Humphrey, Warsaw. Bronze medal
    Oats
C. L. Jesup, Florida
    Corn.--Peachblow, ears
    Wheat.--No. 2, Red
Fred Johannes, Filmore. Silver medal
    Barley.--Black
    Buckwheat.--Gray, Silver Hull
    Oats.--Clydesdale
Peter Johnson, Florida
    Buckwheat.--Silver Hull, Silver Gray
    Corn.--Extra Early Evergreen Sweet
A. N. Jones, LeRoy. Grand Prize
    Wheat
John Jones, Meriden. Bronze medal.
    Oats.--Pride of England
    Wheat.--Farmer's Friend
N. B. Keeney & Son, LeRoy. Gold medal
    Beans.--Saddle Back Wax, White Kidney, Dwarf Horticulture,
      Bush, Bismarck, Snow Flake Pea, Burpee's New Stringless
      Green Pod, Crimson Flageolet, Boston Small Pod, China Red
      Eye, Grant's Stringless Green Pod, Red Valentine, Celestial
      Wax, Improved Golden Wax, Currie's Rust Proof Wax, Improved
      Horticulture, Improved Black Wax, Burlingame's
      Medium, Early Mohawk, Davis Wax, Pencil Pod Black Wax,
      Golden-Eyed Wax, Golden Refugee, Maule's Butter Wax,
      Keeney's Rustless Golden Wax, White Wax, Longfellow Bush,
      Round Pod Kidney Wax, Round Pod Refugee, Brittle Wax,
      Yosemite Mammoth Wax, Extra Early Refugee, Challenger
      Black Wax, Flageolet Wax, Keeney's Stringless Refugee Wax
    Peas.--Abundance, Admiral, Advancer, Alaska, Ameer,
      American Champion, American Wonder, British Wonder,
      Champion of England, Claudit, Duke of Albany, Duke of York,
      Ever Bearing, Nott's Excelsior, Extra Early Pedigree, Extra
      Early Trial Ground, First and Best, Forcing Suttons, Forty-Fold,
      Glory, Gradus or Prosperity, Heroine, Hurst William,
      Juno, Prolific Laxtons, Laxton, Thos., Long Island Mammoth,
      Market Garden, Horsfords, Marrowfat (Black-Eyed, Early
      Marblehead, White), Premium Gem, Pride of the Market,
      Profusion, Prolific Early Market, Reliance Hursts, Seedling
      Suttons, Senator Improved, Shropshire Hero, Station, Stratagem,
      Sugar Mammoth Podded, Surprise Gregorys, Telegraph,
      Telephone, Tom Thumb, Yorkshire Hero
C. E. Knapp, Little Britain. Bronze medal
    Corn.--White Flint, ears
Frank Lawrence, Ellington. Bronze medal
    Barley.--Beardless
    Oats.--Siberian
E. D. Lee, Whitesville
    Corn.--White Flint, ears
James Livingston, Cobleskill. Silver medal
    Flax
    Timothy
Charles Lovell, Painted Post. Silver medal
    Oats.--English Wonder
    Wheat.--Gold Bullion
D. Macbeth, Kanona. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--Clawson
Mrs. S. E. Manning, Elmira Heights. Gold medal
    Wheat.--Red Russian
Frank Marley, Hornellsville
    Corn.--Red Blaze
Charles Martin, Hartford. Silver medal
    Beans.--Apple
Fred Martin, Fort Ann
    Corn.--King Phillip
Will Martin, Hartford
    Oats.--Lincoln
Jacob Marzolf, Clarence Center. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--Hundred Mark
E. P. Mattice, Middlebury
    Wheat.--Genesee Giant
Harry J. McCann, Elmira. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Queen's Golden Pop, Queen's Golden, ears
    Pumpkin.--Red Field
James McCann, Elmira. Silver medal
    Corn.--Klondike
    Buckwheat.--Gray
    Rye.--White
John McCann, Elmira. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Rochester Red, Clawson, Golden Coin
    Corn.--White Cap Yellow Dent, Queen's Golden Pop, ears,
      White Pearl Pop, ears
    Buckwheat.--Japanese
    Clover.--Crimson
    Beans.--Red Marrow, Gold Eye
    Rye.--Dark
    Oats.--Banner
S. J. McChesney, Kanona. Silver medal
    Wheat.--White Winter
John McConkie, Galway. Silver medal
    Oats.--White Swede, Welcome
E. J. McLean, Troupsburg. Silver medal
    Beans.--White Kidney
    Barley.--Black
    Buckwheat.--Silver Gray, Silver Hull
    Corn.--Pop Corn, ears
Stephen Merchant, Burnt Hills. Silver medal
    Rye.--White
D. W. Miller, Boonville. Bronze medal
    Oats.--Arctic
Romantie Miller, Scottsville. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--Longberry Red
George E. Minard, Filmore. Silver medal
    Barley.--Black, Beardless, Giant White
    Corn.---Yellow Flint, ears
Howard Moore, Cobleskill. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Early Sunset Yellow
J. W. Moore, Fishkill Village. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--Gold Coin, White Winter
    Rye.--White Winter
    Corn.--White Dent, ears
Daniel Morris, Groveland. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--No. 8 Red Winter
Munger Bros., Warsaw. Silver medal
    Barley.--Beardless
    Oats.--Golden Prolific
J. Myers, Warnersville. Silver medal
    Beans.--Red Kidney
New York State Grange. Butler grand prize banner
    Collection of Grains
E. E. Nichols, South Onondaga. Bronze medal
    Rye.--Dark
    Wheat.--Gold Chaff, Red Winter
    Oats.--Swede, Lincoln, White Russian
    Peas.--Small Field
    Buckwheat.--Japanese
    Corn.--Eight-Rowed White Ears, Early Red Cory Sweet, 1900
    Sweet, Monarch Sweet
Will Norton, Hartford. Bronze medal
    Barley.--Beardless
    Oats.--Lincoln
Oatka Farm, Scottsville. Silver medal
    Rye.--Dark
    Wheat.--Dawson's Golden Chaff
Hugh Osborne, East Hartford. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Atwood, ears
F. R. Payne, White Plains. Silver medal
    Beans.--White Marrowfat
Charles Perry, Wyoming. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Dawson's Golden Chaff
N. S. Pierson, Painted Post. Silver medal
    Rye.--Dark
I. B. Pipe, Prattsburg. Silver medal
    Buckwheat.--Silver Hull
    Oats.--Twentieth Century
F. C. Platt, Painted Post. Bronze medal
    Oats.--Golden
J. P. Platt, Bath. Gold medal
    Wheat.--Gold Coin
G. Pollock, East Hartford. Bronze medal
    Oats.--Probister
Peter Prechtel, Elmira. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--Clawson
Frank Qua, East Hartford
    Oats.--Swede, White Star
George R. Qua, Hartford. Gold medal
    Rye.--Siberian
G. L. Quick, Rochester Junction. Gold medal
    Wheat.--Dawson's Golden Chaff
    Oats.--Clydesdale
Anson Reed, Kanona. Silver medal
    Beans.--White Kidney, Golden Eyed
James H. Russell, Hopewell Junction. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Early Mastodon, ears
H. Brown Richardson, Lowville. Silver medal
    Maple Sugar
    Maple Syrup
John K. Roe, Florida. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Queen's Golden Pop
E. N. Rollins, Andover. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Gold Coin
W. H. Roper, Wyoming. Silver medal
    Oats.--Siberian
    Wheat.--Genesee Giant
M. J. Sahler, Pattan Kunk. Silver medal
    Oats.--Twentieth Century, American Improved
    Buckwheat.--Japanese
Chas. F. Saul, Syracuse
  Seeds
    Peas.--Yorkshire Heroes, Everbearing, Telephone, McLean's
      Advancers, Extra Early Premium Gem, Duke of York, Juno,
      First and Best, McLean's Little Gem, Alaska, Prosperity, Champion
      of England, Black-Eyed Marrowfat, American Wonder,
      Horsford's Market Garden, Philadelphia Extra Early, Nott's
      Excelsior
    Beans.--Red Kidney, Large Lima, Long Yellow Six Weeks,
      Horticultural, Henderson's Bush Lima, Sofa
    Spelt
    Rye.--Spring
    Clover.--Medium, Mammoth, Crimson, White
    Grass.--Orchard
    Corn.--Eight-Rowed Yellow, Black Mexican
    Barley.--Imperial Two-Rowed, Fancy Red Top
    Wheat.--Spring
    Kentucky Blue Grass
    Hemp
    Lettuce.--Boston
    Onion.--Red Wethersfield
    Squash.--Summer Crookneck, Hubbard
    Canary Seed
    Rape.--Dwarf Essex
    Melon.--Rockford
    Watermelon.--Ice Cream, Cobb's Gem
    Celery
    Beet
    Carrot
    Salsify
    Parsnip.--Hollow Crown
    Spinach
    Radish
    Turnip
    Cow Peas
    Field Pumpkin
    Millet.--Japan
    Cucumber.--Early Cluster
    Kaffir Corn
    Timothy
Will Saville, Hartford. Bronze medal
    Corn.--White Cap Dent
Sidney Schell, Theresa
    Oats.-Mortgage Lifter
I. L. Schofield, Wappingers Falls. Bronze medal
    Buckwheat.--Japanese
C. E. Schultz, Florida. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Eight-Rowed Yellow
R. F. Seeley, Waterloo. Silver medal
    Timothy
    Rye.--Mammoth White
    Corn.--Eight-Rowed Yellow
    Wheat.--Jones' Winter Fife, American Bronze
    Beans.--Red Kidney
    Buckwheat.--Japanese
Chas. J. Settle, Cobleskill
    Rye.--White
S. C. Shaver, Albany. Gold medal
    Hops.--Albany
A. M. Sleight, Arlington. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Eight-Rowed Yellow, ears
Fred W. Smith, Scottsville
    Oats.--Genesee Valley White
Ward L. Snyder, Carlisle Center. Bronze medal
    Oats.--Twentieth Century, Italian
Ed. Stevens, Warsaw. Bronze medal
    Buckwheat.--Gray
F. C. Stevens, Attica. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Silver Chaff, No. 6
    Rye.--Winter, Dark
Henry Stewart, Kanona. Gold medal
    Wheat.--Red Winter
    Barley
T. L. Stone, Craig Colony, Sonyea. Silver medal
    Corn.-Shakers' Pride, Pride of the North, White Shaker
    Wheat.--Red Winter Fife, Red Winter No. 8
    Oats.--Mixed
Stumpp & Walter Co., New York city. Gold medal
  Seeds
    Corn.--Evergreen Brown, Red Kaffir, White Kaffir, Snow
      White Dent, Stowell's Evergreen, Iowa Gold Mine, Yellow
      Dent, Improved Longfellow, Southern Horse Tooth, Cory
      White Cob, Metropolitan, Yellow Mills Maize
    Clover.--White Dutch, Red, Crimson
    Millet.--German or Golden, Japanese
    Grass.--Italian Rye, Rough Stalked Meadow, Orchard,
      Creeping Bent, Shady Place, Permanent Pasture, Rhode Island
      Bent, English Rye, Kentucky Blue, Canada Blue, English Cow,
      Hungarian
    Hard Fescue
    Timothy.--Fancy
    Recleaned Red Top
    Alfalfa
    Alsike
    Red Fescue
    Meadow Fescue
    Peas.--Daniel O'Rourke, American Wonder, Black-Eyed
      Cow, Canada Field, Telephone, Black-Eyed Marrowfat, Dwarf
      Sugar, Blue Beauty, Bliss Everbearing, Juno, Alaska, Nott's
      Excelsior, Horseford's Golden, Little Gem, Heroine, First
      of All
    Beans.--Davis Kidney Wax, Best of All, Improved Golden
      Wax, Early Long Yellow Six Weeks, Red Valentine, Dwarf
      Horticultural, King of the Garden, Early Refugee, Improved
      Black Wax, Early Green Sofa, Velvet, Stringless Green Pod,
      Early Mohawk, Refugee or 1000 to 1, Burpee's Bush Lima,
      Lazy Wife, Bountiful
    Oats.--Clydesdale, Russian, Lincoln
    Sun Flower.--Mammoth Russian
    Sea Island Cotton
    Hemp
    Wheat.--Silver Sheaf Winter, Red Winter, Jones' Red
      Chief, Saskatchewan
    Barley.--Champion Beardless
    Rice.--Unhulled
    Pumpkin.--Large Cheese, Connecticut Field
    Radish.--Early Scarlet Turnip, White-Tipped
    Teosinte
    Peas.--Sweet
    Sorghum.--Early Amber, Early Orange
    Spinach.--Roundleaf, Norfolk Savoy, Long Standing,
      Verofly
    Australian Salt Bush
    Rye.--Winter, Dark
    Turnip.--Improved Purple Top Rutabaga, Yellowstone
    Beet.--Mammoth Long Red Mangel, Champion Yellow
      Globe
    Parsley.--Double-Curled
    Lettuce.--California Cream Butter, Early Curled Simpson
    Buckwheat.--Japanese
    Field Lupins
    Onions.--Wethersfield
    Sainfoin
    Amber Cane
    Salsify.--Sandwich Island
C. O. Taylor, Petrolia. Bronze medal
    Oats.--Siberian
Morrison Taylor, Florida. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Eight Rowed Yellow
J. M. Thorburn & Co., New York city. Grand prize
  Field, Garden and Flower Seeds
    Bermuda.--Cedar
    Radish.--Early Turnip, Early Deep Blood Turnip, Half Long
      Delicacy, White Tipped, Non Plus Ultra, Round Scarlet China,
      Scarlet Turnip, Scarlet Globe, Olive Shaped Golden Yellow,
      Olive Shaped Red Rocket, White Tipped Scarlet, French
      Breakfast, Golden Summer, Scarlet Forcing, Winter, White
      Winter, White Olive Shaped, Black Spanish, Long White Icicle,
      White Tipped Summer White, Tipped Turnip, Long White
      Russian, Scarlet Chinese Winter, Woods Early Frame
    Lapania Borbonica
    Salsify.--Long White French
    Yellow Locust
    Cabbage.--Cow
    Beet.--Mammoth Long Red Mangel Wurzel, Queen of Denmark
      Sugar, Columbia, Golden Fleshed Globe Mangel Wurzel,
      Golden Tankard Mangel Wurzel, Red Globe Mangel Wurzel,
      Turin
    Tomato.--Blush Lemon, Aristocrat, Fagmore, Scarlet, Yellow
      Plum, Democrat, Thorburn's Novelty, Thorburn's 1903,
      Thorburn's Rosalind, Waldorf
    Parsley.--Moss Curled
    Asparagus
    Marigold.--Eldorado
    Coffee Tree.--Kentucky
    Millet.--Barn Yard, Red Siberian
    Watermelon.--Imperial, Iron Clad, Dark Iceing, Triumph,
      Hungarian, Van Cluse
    Cucumber.--Small Gerkin, White Pearl
    Oats.--Silver Mine, Black Tartarian
    Squash.--Marblehead, White Chestnut, Canada Crookneck,
      Pineapple, Orange Marrow, Red China, Perfect Gem, Butmans,
      Pikes Peak, Der Wing, The Faxon, Japan Turban, French
      Olive
    Silver Maple
    Juglans Cardifornus
    Celery.--Cooper's Cutting, Thorburn's Fin de Siecle
    Sorrel.--Garden
    Mignonette
    Sun Flower.--Large Russian
    Musk Melon.--Pineapple, Golden Gate
    Teosinte
    Grass.--Ribbed, Red Fescue, Meadow Fescue, Pepper, Hungarian
    Curled Chervil
    Borage
    Pepper.--Sweet Spanish
    Caraway
    Savory.--Summer
    Aera Caespitosa
    French Thyme
    Wheat.--Premium Red New York, Ruperts Giant, Red
      Rover
    Poppy.--Double Peony Flowered
    Calendula.--Prince of Orange
    Koelreuteria Paniculata
    Rough Rice
    Chicory.--Large Rooted
    Lettuce.--Thorburn's Mammoth Black Seeded, Black Seeded
      Tennis Ball, Thorburn's Maxumum, Hammersmith's Hardy,
      Green
    Carrot.--Bellot, Carentan
    Anthoxanthum Oderatum
    Cherry.--Mahaleb
    Coliander
    Beech.--American
    Crab Apple.--French
    Cherry.--Black Mazzard
    Leek.--Large Flag Winter
    Dill
    Juglans.--Sieboldii
    Kentia.--Belmoreana
    Musk Melon.--Ward's Nectar
    Lupins.--Blue, White, Yellow
    Turnip.--White Norfolk, Thorburn's Improved Purple Top
      Rutabaga
    Onion.--Thorburn's Excelsior Pickling
    Lavender
    Dandelion
    Apricot Pits
    Endive.--White Curled
    Sage
    Fagus.--Sylvatica
    Lolumi.--Italicum
    Kale.--Sea
    Canary.--Sicily
    Connes Florida
    Morning Glory
    Holcus Lanatus
    Lolucui Perenis.--Thorburn's Selected Dwarf
    Prunes.--Serotina
    Rhus.--Copallina
    Clover.--Sand Crimson, Japan, White, Pea-vine
    Spinach.--Winter, Long Standing, Lettuce Leaf, New
      Zealand, Summer
    Beet.--Swiss, Chard
    Ampelopsis Hederacea
    Bene
    Gourd.--Sugar Trough, Dish Cloth, Mock Orange
    Catalpa
    Lentils.--Spanish
    Buckwheat.--Japanese, American Silver Hull
    Butternut
    Cypress.--Bald
    Rye.--Excelsior Winter
    Rice--Wild
    Elm.--Common
    Spelts
    Burnet.--Common Field
    Pumpkin.--Tennessee Sweet Potato
    Sainfoin
    Sera Della
    Spring Tares
    Fenn Greek
    Linden.--American
    Tree of Heaven
    Kentia.--Fosteriana
    Acer Coriaceum
    Australian Salt Bush
    White Birch
    Timothy.--Fancy
    Mushroom.--French Spawn
    Spurry-Spergula Arvensis
    Scotch Broom
    Pinus.--Maritima
    Candytuft
    Festuca Ovina
    Alsike.--Clover
    Abies.--Nordmanniana
    Cynosurus Ciristatus
    Alfalfa
    Kohl Rabi.--Large White
    Acer.--Campestre
    Calendula
    Mustard.---Broad Leaved
    Corylus.--American
    Aster
    Alopecurus Pralensis
    Pinus.--Cembra
    Poppy
    Nasturtium.--Tall Mixed
    Sweet Marjoram
    French Pear
    Virginian Stock
    Pinus.--Pinea
    Parsnip.--Hollow Crown
    Scorzouena
    Acer.--Pseudo-platanus
    Bromus Mollis
    Cauliflower.--Gilt Edged
    Laburnum
    Anemone Coronaria
    Poa Trivialis
    Jute
    Almes.--Oregonia
    Thea Viridis
    Brussells Sprouts
    Faximus Excelsior
    Calleopsis
    Anise
    Convolvulus.--Tricolor
    Poa Annua
    Sweet Fennel
    Tulip Tree
    Peas.--Stratagem, William Hurst, Prince of Wales, Horseford's
      Market Garden, Thorburn's Early Market, Sweet, Blue
      Beauty, Dr. McLean's, Alaska, Yorkshire Hero, Telephone,
      Premium Gem, Juno, McLean's Advancers, Clay Cow, Queen,
      Champion of England, American Wonder, Alpha, Telegraph,
      Pride of the Market, Heroine, Duke of Albany, Abundance,
      Nott's Excelsior, Gregory's Surprise, Gradus, Everbearing,
      Magnum Bonum
    Corn.--Leaming, Virginia Horse Tooth, Snow Flake, Early
      Yellow Canada, Farmer's Favorite, Compton's Early Flint,
      Sanford's White Flint, Angel of Midnight, Hickory King,
      White Surprise, Longfellow, Thorburn's White Flint, Mastodon
      Dent, Golden Beauty, Stowell's Evergreen Sugar, Potter's
      Excelsior Sugar, Country Gentleman Sugar, Early Adams
      Sugar, Black Mexican Sugar, Egyptian Sugar, Triumph Sugar,
      Minnesota Sugar, Corn Salad, Perry's Hybrid Sweet ears,
      Black Mexican Sweet ears, Hickox Sweet ears, Early Minnesota
      Sweet ears, Early Crosby Sweet ears, Hickory King ears,
      King Phillip ears, Legal Tender ears, White Cap Yellow Dent
      ears, Compton's Early ears, Northern White Dent ears, Pride
      of the North ears, White Sanford ears
    Beans.--Tall July Runners, Vienna Forcer, Sword (Long
      Pod) Challenger Lime, Improved Golden Cluster, English
      House, Velvet Wardwell Kidney Wax, Scarlet Runner, Kentucky
      Wonder, Golden Refugee, White Snowflake, Lightning,
      Yellow Sofa, Castor, Early Valentine, Pole, Ne Plus Ultra,
      Broad Windsor, Galega, Medium Eyed Sofa, Horticultural,
      Dun Colored, Byer's Dwarf, Marvel of Paris, Dwarf Chocolate,
      Canadian Wonder, Thornburn's Dwarf Lima, Longfellow Bush,
      Longfellow Six Weeks Bush, Early Mohawk Bush, Early China
      Bush, Everbearing Bush, Improved Golden Cluster Bush,
      Medium Early Green Bush, Round Pod Kidney Wax Bush,
      Lazy Wife Pole, Golden-Eyed Wax Bush, Scarlet Runner
      (Pole), Emperor of Russia (Pole), Round Six Weeks Bush,
      Southern Creeseback Bush, 1,000 to 1 Bush, Black Velentine
      Bush, Improved Golden Wax Bush, White Kidney Bush,
      White Marrow Bush
Peter S. Tower, Youngstown. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Early Arcadian
    Corn.--Eight-Rowed Yellow, ears
Miles Townsend, Bath. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Longberry Red
Morgan Vail, Stormville. Silver medal
    Oats.--White Tartar
    Rye.--White Winter
    Corn.--White Dent, ears
Vancott Bros., LaGrangeville. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Pride of New Jersey, ears
W. H. Dueson, Le Roy. Gold medal
    Wheat.--Red Clawson
Walter Van Loon, Bath. Gold medal
    Beans.--Marrowfat
Joseph Van Wyck, Arlington. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Eight-Rowed Yellow, ears
James Vick's Sons, Rochester. Silver medal
    Clover.--Crimson
    Cane.--Amber
    Flax
    Corn.--Champion White Pearl Pop, Early Mastodon, Pride of
      the North, Kaffir
    Pea.--Large White Marrowfat, Small Field
    Beans.--Black Butter, White Kidney, Black Wax, Large Marrowfat,
      Red Kidney
    Barley.--Bulless, Manshung
    Oats.--New Banner.
    Sun Flower.--White--Beauty, Mammoth Russian
F. L. Wailt, Ellington. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--White Winter
Walter Ward, Rochester Junction. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Longfellow Yellow, ears
John B. Y. Warner, Scottsville. Silver medal
    Barley.--Beardless
Charles Watrous, Warsaw. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--Red Clawson
    Oats.--Clydesdale, Probester
Mrs. Emogene Watrous, Warsaw. Silver medal
    Wheat.
Joseph L. Weed, Ballston Spa. Bronze medal
    Corn.--Eight-Rowed Yellow, ears, Twelve-Rowed Yellow,
      ears, Eight-Rowed Yellow Dent, ears
C. Weiting, Cobleskill. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Spring Red
W. H. Wheeler, Florida. Silver medal
    Wheat.--Red Winter, Fulcastor
C. W. & C. M. Wilcox, Delhi. Silver medal
    Maple Sugar and Syrup
James Wilder, Warsaw. Silver medal
    Rye.--White
Charles Willour, Painted Post. Bronze medal
    Wheat.--Long Medt
James M. Wisner, Edenville
    Corn.--Pedrick Perfect, ears
O. M. Wixon, Elinira. Bronze medal
    Wheat.---Clawson
    Oats.--Early Scotch
C. S. Wright, Hammond
    Corn.--New England Fline, ears
Wyoming County Alms House, Varysburg. Silver medal
    Wheat and Oats
A. Young, Bath. Bronze medal
    Corn.--White Rice Pop, ears

Vegetables

Albany County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Allegany County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
C. L. Allen, Sandy Hill. Silver medal
    Potatoes
C. W. Becker, Carlisle. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Salzer's Great Sunlight, Salzer's Million Dollar
John Bockeno, Baldwinsville. Bronze medal
    Onions.--Yellow Danvers, Prize Taker, Silver King, Southport
      Red, Southport White
F. E. Brown, Binghamton. Bronze medal
    Onions.--Red Wethersfield, Australian Brown, Yellow
      Danvers, Prize Takers, Southport White
Arthur L. Billings, Prattsburg. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Hobson's Choice, Uncle Sam, White Gilial, New
      York Wonder, White Banner, Billings' Favorite, Billings'
      White Beauty, American Beauty, Billings' Surprise, Early
      Gem, Sir Walter Raleigh, Sampson's Best, Vick's Early Perfection,
      Beauty Hebron, Excelsior, Golden Nugget, White
      Steuben
Fred Coe, Fulton. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Blue Victor, World's Fair Prize, Early Northern,
      Early Michigan, Carmen No. 3, Bovee, Quick Crop, Late
      Hebron, Potentate, Burpee's Superior, Green Mountain, New
      Queen, Gold Coin, Delaware
    Beets.--Turnip Blood
James E. Cole, Fulton. Bronze medal
    Tomatoes.--Golden Queen, Burpee's Matchless
    Squash.--Hubbard
Miss Mabel Churchill, Fulton. Bronze medal
    Onions.--White Globe, Yellow Globe, Red Globe, Red
      Wethersfield
    Beets.--Red Turnip
    Potatoes.--White Mammoth
Jessie T. Carrier, Fulton. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Quick Crop, Early Market
Chemung County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Cortland County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Columbia County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Cornell University, Ithaca. Grand prize
    Beets.--Lane's Sugar, Crimson Globe, Yellow Table, Sugar,
      Detroit Red, Long Red Mangel, Golden Tankard
    Radishes.--Summer, Winter
    Squash.--Dent Marrow, Yellow Bush Scallop, White Bush
      Scallop, Summer Crookneck, Turban, Boston Marrow, Warty
      Hubbard, Hubbard, Vegetable Marrow, Ford Hook
    Citron.
    Corn.--Eight-Rowed Yellow, 90 Day Monarch, Stowell's
      Evergreen
    Beans.--Lima
    Turnips.--Rutabaga, Purple Top Strap Leaf, White Sweet
      German, Sweet Russian, White Egg
    Pumpkin.--Mammoth Chilian, Negro, Field, Mammoth
      Cheese
    Carrots.--Long Orange, Short Orange, Ox Heart
    Salsify.
    Onions.--Burpee's Australian Brown, Mammoth White,
      Yellow Danvers, Red, Mills' White Portugal, Red Victoria,
      Southport Red Globe, Red Wethersfield, Mills' New White
      Queen, Mammoth Red Pompett, Mills' Brown Wonder, Ferr's
      Early Red, Southport Yellow Globe, Mills' White Victoria,
      Burpee's Early Golden Globe, Yellow Globe Danvers, Yellow
      Dutch or Strasburg, Burpee's Cherry Pickle, Extra Early Red,
      Michigan Danvers
    Kohl Rabi.--Red, White
    Parsnips.
    Martynia.--Gourds
    Celery.--White Plume
    Turnips.--Sweet Rutabaga
    Squash.--Delicate
    Beets.--Early Egyptian, New Queen, Globe Mangel, Red
      Mangel, Red Turnip
    Squash.--Hubbard
    Turnips.--Purple Top Rutabaga, Purple Top, White Rutabaga,
      Flat Dutch, Purple Top Strap Leaf
    Pumpkin.--Field
    Potatoes.--Churchill Seedling, Rose of Erin, Uncle Sam,
      Sir Walter Raleigh, Maule's Early, Chase's Early, Pan-American,
      Early Fortune, Bliss Triumph, Nevada White, Chautauqua,
      Ohio Victor, Burpee's Perfection, Celtic Beauty, Centennial
      Blue, Livingston's Banner, Monarch of the West, Early
      Janet, Late Rose, Hammond's Early, Blue Christy, Early
      North, 20th Century, Maggie Murphy, Early Canada, Pure
      Gold, Early Vermont, Early Six Weeks, Eam's Early
    Cauliflower.
    Swiss Chard.
    Salsify.
    Okra.
    Celery.--Turnip Rooted, White Plume, Parsley
    Cabbage.--White Flat, Round White
    Leeks.
    Beets.--Sugar, Detroit Red, Long Red Mangels
    Kohl Rabi.--White
    Parsnips.
    Carrots.--White Belgian
    Onions.--Yellow, White
    Radish.--Red Chinese
    Squash.--Summer Crookneck, Marrow
    Pumpkin.--Red Gold
    Corn.--Stowell's Evergreen
    Potatoes.--Carmen No. 1, Burbanks
    Celery.--Root's
    Cabbage.--Danish Bullhead, Surehead, Autumn King
    Turnips.--Garton's Pioneer Hybrid, Magnum Bonum
      Swedes, Purple Top Cow Horn, White Cow Horn, Golden
      Ball, Hartley's Top Rutabaga, Maule's Improved Purple Top,
      Aberdeen Yellow, Garton's Monarch Rutabaga, Green Top
      Scotch Yellow
    Beets.--Golden Tankard, Sugar Beets, Garton's Long Red
      Mangel, Norbition Giant Mangels, Half Sugar Mangels, Yellow
      Globe Mangels, Chinks Castle Long Red Mangels, Sutton's
      Long Red Mangels
    Carrots.--James Intermediate, Witshire Giant White, Yellow
      Belgium, Scarlet Intermediate, Lobberich's Agricultural
    Parsnips.--Hollow Crown
Crossman Bros., Rochester. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Great Divide, White Giant, White Flower, Blue
      Bell, Victor, Early Minister, Golden Bell, Excelsior
C. W. Dearlove, Prattsburg. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Evert's Early, Rupert's Perfection, Free Silver,
      Rupert's Early, Stray Beauty, Rural New Yorker No. 2,
      Farmer's Beauty, Maine Rose, Adirondack, Sarvia Red, New
      Queen, Pride of the West, Cayuga Chief, Mammoth Pearl,
      Early Thoroughbred, Prize Taker, White Beauty, Mills' New
      Astonisher, Early Minister, Michigan Russet, Rose Early, Early
      Ohio, Earth Northern, English Russet, White Peachblow, Late
      Rose, Isle of Jersey, Pride of Jersey, Money Maker, Snow
      Drop, Late Prindaes
John DeGraw, Middletown. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Early Northern, Blue Victor
G. M. Durland, Florida. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Early Sunrise
Dutchess County. Silver medal
    Potatoes.
A. Empie, Carlisle. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Early White Michigan, Freeman
Leonard Fenton, Standards. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Early Giant
Charles W. Ford & Co., Fishers. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Empire State, Queen
E. C. Foster, Standards. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Blue Victor
Geneva Experiment Station, Geneva. Silver medal
    Tomatoes.--Ponderosa, Earliana, Success, Trophy, Royal
      Red, Atlantic Prize, Golden Queen, Lester's Prolific, Beauty,
      Buckeye, Freedom, New Imperial
G. Gessell, South Lirna. Silver medal
    Celery
Burt Giddings, Fulton. Bronze medal
    Onions
Glendale Stock Farm, Glens Falls. Grand prize
    Squash.--Golden Bronze, Hubbard, Marblehead, Turban,
      Boston Marrow, Brazilian Sugar, Pineapple, Mammoth Whale,
      Canada Crookneck, Early Golden Bush, Silver Bush, Yellow
      Bush Scallop, Fordhook, Early White Scallop Bush, Red
      Hubbard, Summer Crookneck, Giant Summer Crookneck, Warty
      Hubbard, Red Hubbard, Mammoth, Chilian, Essex Hybrid,
      Ford Hook, Cocoanut, White Bush Scallop, New Mammoth
      White Bush, English Vegetable Marrow, Mammoth Yellow
      Bush, Golden Custard, White Summer Crookneck, White Pineapple,
      Early White Bush, Long White Marrow, Des Wing,
      Pike's Peak, White Chestnut, Delicate, Bronze, Golden Marrow,
      Giant Crookneck, Giant Straightneck, Striped Bush
    Beets.--Long Red, Red Globe, Yellow Globe, Table Beet
      Flat, Rose Half Sugar, Red Intermediate, Sugar, Long Yellow,
      Giant Yellow Intermediate, Half Long Turnip
    Mangels.--Wurzel Golden Tankard, Wurzel Mammoth Long
      Red, Wurzel Yellow Globe
    Cucumbers.--Short Green, Yellow Short, White Long, Improved
      Long Green
    Leek.--Musselburgh, Large Row
    Kohl Rabi.--Early Purple Vienna
    Parsnips.--Long White
    Carrots.--Long White, Half Short Ox Heart, Long Orange,
      Short White
    Turnips.--Yellow Rutabaga, Red Top, Globe Shaped, White
      Strap-Leafed Flat
    Pumpkins.--Cheese, Connecticut Field, Red Etampe, Cushaw,
      Green Mountain, Early Sugar, Livingston Pie, Quaker
      Pie, Brazilian Sugar, Negro, Tennessee Sweet Potato, Golden
      Oblong, Genuine Mammoth, Winter Luxury, King of Mammoth,
      Sandwich Island, Salzer's Mammoth, Jonathan, Calhoun,
      Tours, Mammoth Globe, Sweet Pie, Golden Oblong, Japan
      Crookneck
    Tomatoes.--Acme, Canada, Cardinal, Dwarf Champion,
      Early Conquerer, Essex Hybrid, General Grant, Jumbo, Livingston's
      Beauty, Livingston's Favorite, Livingston's Perfection,
      Mikado, New Queen, Optmus, Paragon, Pear-Shaped
      Red, Pear-Shaped Yellow, Crimson Cushion, Yellow Cherry,
      Red Cherry, Stone Cherry, Combination, Henderson's Ponderosa,
      Mammoth Prize, Honor Bright, Burpee's Noble, Long
      Keeper, Sutton's Best of All, Ford Hook First, Imperial,
      Climax, Queen Table, Autocrat, Beauty, Golden Queen, White
      Excelsior, Lemon Bush, Terra Cotta Lorillard, Yellow Peach,
      Red Peach, Red Currant, Matchless, Yellow Plum, Red Pear,
      Yellow Pear, Trophy, Volunteer
    Water Melons.--Black Spanish, Boss, Cuban Queen, Green
      and Gold, Kolb's Gem, Mammoth Iron Clad, Mountain Sweet,
      Orange, Peerless Ice Cream, Cole, The Jones, Sweetheart, Black
      Diamond, Florida's Favorite, Dixie, Seminole, Pride of Georgia,
      Black Bolder, Duke Jones, Scarly Bark, Wonderful Sugar,
      Phinney's Early
    Peppers.--Celestial Cherry, County Fair, Chinese, Long Cayenne,
      Long Red, Long Yellow, Ruby King, Sweet Mountain,
      Black Unbian, Red Chili, Red Etruce, Elephant, Gold Upright,
      Kaliscope, Red Cluster, Orange Rinkle, Bull Nose, Spanish
      Montrous, Ox Heart, Red Cherry, Sweet Spanish, Yellow Chili
    Cauliflower.
    Cabbage.--Early York, Winnestadt, Summer, Jersey Wakefield,
      Early Flat Dutch, Fowler's Short Stem, All Seasons, Henderson's
      Succession, Stone Mason, Autumn King, Tildegrant,
      Late Flat Dutch, Drumhead, Marblehead Mammoth, Nettie
      Savoy, Drumhead Savoy, Early Red Erfust, Dwarf Flat Dutch,
      Henderson's Early Spring, Selected All Seasons, Charlton
      Wakefield, Thorburn's Collosal, Short Stem, Large Red Drumhead,
      Red Polish Short Stem
    Cucumbers.--Early Russian, Early Cluster, Early Green Prolific,
      Early Frame, Early White Spine, Livingston's Evergreen,
      Nichols' Medium, Long Green, Japanese Climbing, Cool and
      Crisp, White Wonder, Snake, White Pearl, Paris Pickling,
      Short Green Gherkins, West India Gherkins, Long Green Turkey,
      White Spine Arlington
    Brussells Sprouts.--Improved Half Dwarf, Improved Dwarf
      German, Improved Long Island, Improved Perfection
    Egg Plant.--Improved New York, Early Dwarf Purple,
      Long Purple, Round French, Black Pekin, Mammoth Pearl,
      Scarlet Chinese, Round White, Long White, Striped White,
      Black Snake
    Leeks.--Large Flag Winter, Large Rouen Winter, Large
      Musselberg, London Summer
    Parsnips.--Guerney, Long Smooth, Hollow Crown, Delmonico,
      Abbot, Maltese, Student
    Salsify.--Long White French, Sandwich Islands, Thick
      Rooted
    Brussells Sprouts.--Seven Dwarf, Tall, Green, Dwarf Prolific,
      Lady Finger, White Velvet, Perkins Mammoth, Sugar
      Trough, Dipper, Nest Egg, Spocen
    Sage
    Thyme
    Summer Savory
    Dill
    Winter Savory
    Martynia
    Chicory
    Carrots.--Ox Heart, St. Valery, Early Scarlet Horn, Half
      Long Scarlet, Danvers Half Long; Long Yellow Stump Root,
      Long Orange, Short White Vosges, White Belgian, Yellow
      Belgian, Danvers, Henderson's New York, Early Forcing
    Onions.--Yellow Globe Danvers, Yellow Strasburg, Early
      Red, Red Wethersfield, Southport White Globe, Southport Red
      Globe, Southport Yellow Globe, Early Cracker, Silver Skin,
      Prize Taker, White Victoria Red, Early Barletta, Australian
      Brown, White Portugal, Silver Ball, Large Red Globe, Improved
      Michigan, Large White Globe, Giant Roco, Burpee's,
      Gibralter, Queen, Ohio Yellow Globe
    Beets.--Columbia, Dark Stinson, Early Blood Turnip, Egyptian,
      Improved Arlington, Dewing's Improved Blood, Half
      Long Blood, Lentz, Crimson Globe, Eclipse, Crosby's Egyptian,
      Edmunds' Early Blood, Long Smith Blood Red, Bastian Half
      Long Blood, Early Yellow Long, Early Bassano, Arlington's
      Favorite, Electric, Detroit Dark Red, Jumbo, White Sugar
      Rose Top, Lane's Improved, Vilmooric Improved, White Sugar
      Green Top, Long Red Mangel Wurzel, Long Yellow Mangel
      Wurzel, Giant Yellow Mangel Wurzel, Golden Tankard Wurzel,
      Red Globe Wurzel, Yellow Globe Wurzel, Yellow Ovoid Wurzel,
      Half Long Red Wurzel, Golden Flesh Globe Wurzel
    Turnips.--Rutabaga, Golden Ball, Cow Horn, White Egg,
      Yellow Stone, Yellow Globe, Red Top Strap Leaf
    Celeric
    Earth Almonds
    String Beans
    Potatoes.--Dewey, Early Sunrise, Grate, Freeman, Carmen
      No. 1, Telephone, Early Rose, Delaware, White Mountain,
      Stray Beauty, Snow Flake, Irish Queen, White Star, Burbank,
      American Giant, White Elephant, Peerless, Blue Victor, Maine
      Rose, Monroe Seedling, Sir Walter Raleigh, White Hebron,
      Great Dixie, American Wonder, Lightning Express, Bovee,
      Dexter, Clark No. 1, Pat's First Choice, Carmen No. 3, Early
      Ohio, State of Maine, Early Vermont, Uncle Sam, Money
      Maker, Late Rose, Empire State, Rose of Erin, Victor Rose,
      Everett, Early Six Weeks, Howell, Free Silver, Sunrise, Red
      Wonder, Early Market, Early Strawberry, Eureka, New Ideal,
      Thorburn's Late Puritan, Hampton Beauty, Maule's Early
      Thoroughbred, Glendale Seedling, White Lily, Early Chicago
      Market, Gem of Bristol, Pan American, Early Ball, Early Harvest,
      Hebron Beauty, Early Ohio, Jr., Early Northern, Kospangue,
      Green Mountain, Great Divide, New Queen, St. Joseph,
      Signal, Chinese Yams, Rural New Yorker, White Rose, Jersey
      Red Sweet, Yellow Jersey, Lady Finger, Early Russett, Blue
      Mercury, Early York, Bliss Triumph, Early Puritan
    Lettuce.--Tennis Ball, Self Folding, Golden Queen, Big
      Boston, Black-Seed Simpson, New York, Boston, Curled, Iceberg,
      Silver Ball, Hanson, White Heart, Paris White Coe
    Endive.--Green Curled, Moss Curled, White Curled, Broad
      Leafed
Bert Groummore, Minetto. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Carmen No. 2
Herkimer County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
George K. Higbie & Co., Rochester. Gold medal
    Potatoes
C.N. Holley, Glens Falls. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Early Thorburn, Early Hebron, Bovee, Rural
      New Yorker No. 2, Early Norther, Carmen No. 1, Cream
      Howell, Uncle Sam, Krine's Lightning, The Queen, Early
      Fortune, Sweet Home, Pearl of Savory, Yellow Elephant,
      White Elephant, Chicago Market, Green Mountain, Early
      Whiton, Early Roberts, Dakota Red, Great American, Dewey's
      Early, Potentate, Depew, Downing, Early Market, Rural New
      Yorker No. 2, Pat's Choice, Early Norther, Clark's No. I, Blue
      Centennial, Early Seedling, Burpee's Extra Early, Mammoth
      Pearl, Early Sunrise, Irish Cobler, Early Six Weeks, Early
      Ohio, Early Rochester, Henderson's Bovee
J. C. Howard, Irondequoit
    Squash.--Summer Crookneck
    Citron
W.W. Hull, Middletown. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Seedless, Queen of the Highway
Jefferson County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Daniel Johnson, Lisle. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Carmen No. I, Bliss Triumph, Rural New Yorker No. 2,
      Early Puritan, State of Maine, Bovee, Queen, Quick Crop
S. L. Johnson, Lisle. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Sir Walter Raleigh, Rural New Yorker No. 2, Early
      Fortune, Early Puritan, Early Maine, Admiral Dewey, Lee's
      Favorite, Quick Crop, Uncle Sam, Early York, Banner, Green
      Mountain, White Giant, King of Michigan
M. L. Klock, Bath. Gold medal
    Potatoes.--Celtic Beauty, Red Star, Ontario, Great Dundee,
      Mills' New Astonisher, Carmen No. 3, New Ideal, Rupert's
      Perfection, German Queen, Snow Flake, White Gilial, White
      Mountain, New Queen, Mohawk Valley, Twilight, White Peachblow,
      Cayuga Chief, Bliss Triumph, Early Hebron, Early Six Weeks,
      Burpee's Early, Hammond's Up-to-Date, Golden Bell, Early
      Chicago Market, Early Ohio, White Hebron, Rose White,
      White Wax, Maine Rose, Farmer's Daughter, Isle of Jersey,
      Housewife Favorite, Queen of the Valley, Early Crusader, Great
      Steuben
W. S. Kisker, Summit
    Potatoes.--Vick's Champion, Sir Walter Raleigh No. 1
Mrs. C. A. Knapp, Goshen
    Potatoes.--Rural New Yorker
Lewis County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
O. M. Lincoln, Newark. Gold medal
    Potatoes.--Bliss Triumph, Irish Cobler, Rural New Yorker, Bill Nye,
      Early Potentate, Strange Beauty, Blue Victor, Early Norther, White
      Giant, Early Ohio, Early Fortune, Early Sunrise, World's Fair
      Premium, Negro, June Eating, Quick Crop, White Russet, White
      Beauty, Sir Walter Raleigh, Bovee, Star, Early Puritan, Early
      Harvest, Early Albino, Maggie Murphy, Everetts, Dandy, Albino,
      Carmen No. 1 & 2, World's Fair, Great Divide, Early Market, Early
      Maine, Freeman, American Wonder, Pingree, Empire State,
      Rochester Rose, State of Maine, Beauty of Hebron, Monroe Seedling,
      Thorburn, New Queen
P. R. Loder, Bluff Point. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Abundance, Burpee's Extra Early, Early White
      Sunrise, Polaris Early, Gold Coin, Rural New Yorker, Early
      Rose, Late Rose, Late White, Cyclone, White Napoleon, Potentate,
      Early Puritan
Prescott E. Maine, Canastota. Silver medal
    Mangel.--Long Red, Golden Tankard
    Beets.--Sugar
    Squash.--Red Hubbard, Yellow Bush Scallop, Winter Crookneck,
    Mammoth Chilian
    Pumpkin.--Early Sugar, Negro
    Cucumber.--Long White
W. H. Manning, Elm Valley. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Tuscarora, Mortgage Lifter
G. W. Manning, Elm Valley
    Potatoes.--Mortgage Lifter
Asa Mapes, Howells. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Green Mountain
E. N. Marsh, Fredonia. Gold medal
    Potatoes.--Uncle Sam, Lincoln, White Rose, Mortgage
      Lifter, Ohio Junior, Early Sunrise, Sir Walter Raleigh, Early
      Burpee, Eureka, May Queen, Isle of Wight, Early Bovee, Great
      Divide, Acme, Early King, Astonisher, Early Minnesota, Polaris,
      Rochester Rose, Six Weeks, Ohio, Million Dollar Mark
      Hanna, Rural New Yorker, Mills' Prize, Express, Honeoye
      Rose, Salzer's Earliest, Early Rochester
    Onions
    Squash
    Gourd
    Kohl Rabi
C. H. Mason, Cortland. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Clark's Seedling, Pride of Castle Dorn
A. A. Mitchell, Palmyra. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--White Peachblow, Empire State, American Wonder,
      New Queen, World's Fair, Stray Beauty, Bliss Triumph,
      White Star, Sir Walter Raleigh, Early Ohio, Rupert's Perfection,
      White Russet, Rural New Yorker, Early Northern, Early
      Bovee, Early Hebron, Negro, Carmen Nos. 1, 2, 3, Irish
      Cobler, Wilson's First Choice, Honeove Rose, White Giant,
      Bill Nye, Rural New Yorker No. 2, State of Maine, Monroe
      Seedling, Burpee's Extra Early, Blue Victor, Dunkirk Seedling,
      Early Sunrise, Beauty of Hebron, Rochester Rose, Early
      Potentate, Pink Eye, Queen of the Valley, Early Rose
Monroe County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Montgomery County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
A. J. Moore, Beaver Dam. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--American Wonder, Epitomes, Pride of Jersey,
      Mohawk Valley, Pan American, Rural New Yorker No. a, Mr.
      Dooley, Adirondack, Bovee, White Hebron, Early Puritan,
      Clark's Nonesuch, Prize Taker, Michigan Russet, Early Sunrise
James D. McCann, Elmira. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--American Giants
W. A. McCoduck, Sandy Hill. Silver medal
    Onions
New York State Exhibit of Vegetables. Grand prize
Onondaga County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Ontario County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Orange County. Silver medal
    Onions
Otsego County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Fred B. Paine, South Granby. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Vermont Gold Coin, Carmen No. 3, Sir Walter
      Raleigh, Stray Beauty, Green Mountain, Rural New Yorker
      No. 2
A. J. Reed, Bath
    Beets
R. F. Russell, Westtown.
    Potatoes.--Queen of the Valley
M. J. Sahler, Pattaukunk
    Potatoes.--Ouick Crop, Early Dew Drop
Saratoga County. Bronze medal
    Potatoes
W. H. Saunders, South Lima. Silver medal
    Celery
Schenectady County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Schoharie County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Schuyler County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
George Scott, Bath. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Rose White, Early Doe, Early Hero, Early Wheeler
Chas. J. Settle, Cobleskill. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Burbank, Sir Walter Raleigh, Money Makers,
      Carmen No. 1
Frank Shear, Standards
    Potatoes.--Endurance
W. C. Skiff, Davenport Center. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Early Ohio, White Star, Early Puritan, Stray
      Beauty, Blue Victor, June Eating, Rock Rose, Early Sunrise,
      Everett, Calvert, White Peachblow, Carmen No. 1, White
      Beauty, Dandy, Early Harvest, Empire State, Early Market,
      New Queen, Bovee, Pingree, Bliss Triumph, Quick Crop, Sir
      Walter Raleigh, Beauty of Hebron, American Wonder, White
      Giant, Great Divide, Maggie Murphy
Chas. Slocum, Freetown Corners. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Polarus
C. C. Smith, Bath
    Carrots
    Mangels
Jay W. Smith, Fulton. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Vermont Gold Coin, Eureka, Potentate, Burpee's
      Extra Early, Early Northern, Irish Cobler
Steuben County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Steuben Nature Study Workers, Bath
    Potatoes.--Cambridge Russet, Clark's No. 1, Allen's No. 1,
      Beauty of Hebron, King of the Roses, Clark's Nonesuch,
      Celtic Beauty, Salzer's Peachblow, Maggie Murphy, Blue Victor,
      Clark's Early, Abundance, Earlv Sunrise, Cream of the
      Field, American Beauty, Blue Bell, Rose No. 9, Cuban Giant,
      White Peachblow, Giant White, Pan American, World's Fair,
      Peachblow, Carmen No. 3, Hammond's Up-to-Date, Commercial,
      Wilson's First Choice, American Beauty Early, Cavuga
      Chief, White Flower, Vick's Favorite, Charles Downing, Rose
      Invincible, American Wonder White Star, Vick's Extra
      Early, Free Silver, Burpee's Empire State, John Bull, Samson's
      Best, Early Hebron, The Epitomist, Blue Bell, Vick's
      Harvest, Pride of the West, Uncle Sam, Twilight, Great Divide,
      Troy Seedling, Vick's Early Perfection, Twentieth Century,
      Snow Drop, Snow Flake, Rural New Yorker No. 2,
      St. Patrick, Salzer's Earliest, Rupert's Perfection, Adirondack,
      Rural New Yorker No. 1, Prize Taker, Early Wheeler, Washington,
      Klondike, Sir Walter Raleigh, Rose Clay, Bliss Triumph,
      The Tramp, Ted Roosevelt, Great Steuben, Trumbull,
      Hammond's New Wonder, Rusty Coat, Oom Paul, Pride of
      America, Purple Pole, Rupert's Early, Blue Mercer, Early
      Six Weeks, Early Rose Improved, German Queen, Jersey Red,
      American Beauty Late, Jersey Peachblow, Early Michigan,
      Early Cuban Giant, Cobler, Beauty of Rochester, Rose Yo. 9;
      Bovee Earlv, Mammoth Pearl, White Mountain, Monroe Seedling,
      Rose Beauty, Early Harvest, Early Maine, Mills New
      Astonisher, Early Minister, Maine Hebron, White Banner,
      Golden Bell, Green Mountain, Mortgage Lifter, Mohawk Valley,
      German Otteen, Early Pingree, State of Maine, White
      Mammoth, Clark's Early, Columbia, Carmen No. 1, Early
      Gem, Dakota Red, Irish Daisy, Irish Russet, Lee's Favorite,
      Late Puritan, Early Norther, Stray Beauty, Rose Honeoye,
      Radical Seedling, Early Hero, Earlv Snow Ball, White Wax,
      Enormous, Rural Blush, Dewey, Housewife's Favorite, No
      Equal, Real Star, Mills' Prize, Money Maker, Early Pride,
      Rupert's Early, Early Crusader, Early Ohio, Early Chicago
      Market, Early Puritan, English Russet, Early Thoroughbred,
      Golden Nugget, Early Doe, Hammond's Pride of Briton, Early
      Vermont, Michigan Russet, New Jersey, Long Keeper, Livingston's
      Banner, Queen of the Valley, Early Gem, Summerset,
      Himalaya, New Queen, Isle of Jersev, Pride of Jersey, Early
      Freeman, Early Beauty, White Gilial, Early Fortune
    Onions.--White Flat, Yellow Flat, Red Flat, White Round,
      Round Red
    Turnips.--Purple Top Strap Leaf, Purple Top Rutabaga,
      White Strap Leaf
    Squash.--Hubbard, White Bush Scallop, Summer Crookneck
    Pumpkin.--Red Field, Negro
    Cabbage.--Flat Dutch, Drumhead
    Cucumbers.--Short Green
    Radish.--White Winter
    Parsnips.--Long
    Beets.--Table Round, Table Long, Yellow Mangels
    Carrots.--Half Long Orange, Long Orange
St. Lawrence County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Sunnyside Farm, Starkey. Gold medal
    Onions.--Philadelphia Silver Skin, Giant Rocco, Large Yellow
      Globe, Large White Globe, Large Red Globe, Prize Taker,
      Austrian Brown, Red Weathersfield, White Pearl
    Beets.--Lang's Improved Imperial Sugar, Golden Tankard,
      Detroit Dark Red, Burpee's Improved Blood, Brundage Red
      Sugar, Brundage Yellow Sugar, Orange Globe, Improved
      Wanglebee, Crimson Globe
    Carrots.--Danver's Half Long, White Belgium, Ox Heart
    Radish.--Round Black Spanish Winter
    Gourds.--Common, Ornamental Pomegranate
    Turnips.--White Neckless, Purple Top Strap Leaf, Burpee's
      Breadstone
    Squash.--Large Crookneck, Mammoth White Bush Scallop
    Parsnips.--Hollow Crown
    Salsify.--Mammoth Sandwich Island
    Musk Melons.--Banana
    Cucumbers.--White Wonder, Ford Hook Pickling, Ivory
      Monarch, Cool and Crisp, Early Russian, Lemon, Wild, West
      Indies
    Tomatoes.--Enornous Vine Peaches, Golden Queen,
      Matchless, Peach, Yellow Pear, Yellow and Red Cherry
    Potatoes.--Early Ohio, Twilight, Irish Queen, Tuscarora,
      Crown Jewel, State of Maine, Livingston, Belle, White Giant,
      Early Fortune, Vermont Gold Coin, Jersey Peachblow, Mr.
      Dooley, Monroe Prize, Maine Pearl, Centennial, New Queen,
      White Chili, Garlick, Late Star, Hundred Fold, King's Excelsior,
      Carmen No. 3, St. Patrick, Pride of the East, Salzer's
      Beauty, White Peachblow, Seneca Beauty, Baltimore, Old
      Hemlock, Pan American, Allen's No. 1, Lake Erie, Republican,
      Golden Bell, Trumbull, White Michigan, Mullolly, Burpee's
      Extra Early, Rutland Rose, Lady Finger, Early Triumph, Irish
      Cups, Free Silver, Woodhull Seedling, Lincoln, Wall's Maggie
      Murphy, Harvest Queen, Dermore, Table King, Eureka,
      Commercial, Durand Seedling, Northern Spy, Jumbo Charley,
      Queen Victoria, Irish Daisy, Pure Gold, Webster Rose, Charles
      Oak, Summerset, June Eating, Ford's Late White, Empire
      State, Signal, Washington, Green Mountain, Vick's Armstrong,
      Early Freeman, Valley Queen, Red Star, Twentieth
      Century, New Wonder, Snow Flake, Garfield, Isle of Jersey,
      California, Million Dollar, Crandall, Limbo, White Elephant,
      Bermuda, Overton No. g, Rural New Yorker No. 2, Derlove
      No. 7, Farmer's Beauty, Allis' Seedling, Vick's Late White,
      Peachblow Seedling, Belle of Nelson, New Jersey, Irish Cobler,
      Vick's Baker, White Star, Stray Beauty, White Hebron, Cuban
      Orange, Pullman Seedling, Dakota Red, American Beauty,
      Red Chili, Drake's Bermuda, Home Comfort, World's Fair,
      Strong Pride, Early Wonder, Rhode Island Peachblow, June
      Holton, Roscow, Narragansett Red, Beaulah's North Star,
      Fultz. Seedling, Irish Russet, Oepheart, Cow Horn, Monever
      Pride, Irish Gray, Burpee's Early, Enormous, Red Astrican,
      Prolific, Jr., White Whipper, Salina Red, Old Peachblow
Alfred Sweet, Glens Falls. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--North Star, Sir Walter Raleigh, Green Mountain,
      Early Ruby, Potentate, Early Rose, Aristoke Rose, Early Puritan,
      Weiss Rose, Sir Walter Raleigh, Early Ohio, Livingston
      Banner, Poodle, Rose of Erin, Early Vermont, Irish Cobler,
      Mortgage Lifter, Early York, Cuba Orange, American Giant,
      Burbank, Snow Flake, White Mountain, Early Rose, Carmen
      No. 1, Early Sunrise, Delaware, Yellow Jersey, Jersey Red,
      Irish Queen, Stray Beauty, White Elephant, Telephone, Freeman,
      Dewey, Money Maker, White Star
Morrison Taylor, Florida. Bronze medal
    Potatoes.--Green Mountain
J. M. Thorburn & Co., New York City. Grand prize
    Potatoes--Hewe's Early, Early Whiton, Green Mountain,
      Great American, White Elephant, Yellow, Dakota Red, Early
      Robert, Pearl of Savoy, Sweet Home, Chicago Market, Early
      Fortune, Carmen No. 1, Early Norther, Early Queen, The
      Queen, Rural New Yorker No. 2, Bovee, Krine's Lightning,
      Uncle Sam, Early Hebron, Crown Jewel, Early Thorburn,
      Early Rose, Carmen No. 3, Bliss Triumph, Gold Coin
    Sweet Corn.--Country Gentleman, Black Mexican, Striped
      Evergreen, White Evergreen, Stowell's Evergreen
    Sweet Potatoes.--Harrison's Seedling, Jersey Red, Pierson's
      Yellow Jersey, Vineland Bush
    Carrots.--Early Scarlet Horn, Guerandes, Half Long
      Pointed, Half Long Stump Rooted, Nautes, Chautenay, Bellot,
      Early Forcing, Early Round Parisian, White Vosges, St. Valery,
      Short White, Long White, Luc, Half Long Danvers, Long
      Orange
    Beets.--Giant Yellow Intermediate Mangel, Red Globe
      Tankard Mangel, Golden Tankard Mangel, Yellow Tankard
      Mangel, Queen of Denmark Mangel, Long Yellow Mangel,
      Mammoth Long Red Mangel, Green Top Mangel; Rose Top
      Mangel, Yellow Ovoid Mangel, Yellow Globe Mangel, Electric,
      Crimson Globe, Dewing Early, Detroit, Early Blood Turnip,
      Crosby's Egyptian, Half Long Blood, Bassano, Bastian, Long
      Smooth Blood
    Squash.--Early Golden Scallop Bush, Mammoth Chilian,
      Eauphine, Hubbard, Golden Warted, Warren, Boston Marrow,
      Bay State, Marrow, Turban, Mammoth Whale, Brazilian,
      Vegetable, Cocozell Bush, Canada Crookneck, Winter, White
      Custard, Yellow Custard, Cocoanut, Green Streaked Bush,
      Long Island White Bush, Early White Scallop, Giant Summer
      Crookneck, Giant Summer Straightneck, Delicate, Golden
      Hubbard, Ford Hook, Vegetable Marrow, Yellow Oblong,
      Pineapple
    Onions.--Prize Taker, Golden Globe, Small Yellow Globe,
      Red Gargeniis, Roquette
    Parsley.--Extra Curled, Moss, Fern Leaf, Beauty of the Pasture,
      Hamburg
    Pumpkin.--Cheese, Connecticut Field, Red Estanples,
      Negro, Cushaw, Jonathan, Calhoun, Small Sugar
    Peppers.--Long Red Cayenne, Squash, Sweet Golden, Red
      Harold, Golden Queen, Ruby King, Sweet Mountain, Chinese
      Giant, Sweet Italian, Sweet Spanish, Neapolitan, Red Pointed
      Celebrese, Long Bell, Procople Giant, Ox Heart, Elephant's
      Trunk, Yellow Cherry, Celestial, Red Chili, Red Cherry, Red
      Chester, Long Black Mexican, Matchless, Honor Bright
    Kohl Rabi.--Purple Vienna, White Vienna
    Cauliflower
    Egg Plant.-New York Improved, Black Snake, Long
      Purple, Long White, Round White, Mammoth Pearl, Scarlet
      Chinese
    Gourd.--Striped Pear, Orange, Egg, Sugar Trough, Dipper,
      Hercules Club
    Radishes.--Round Black Spanish, Half Long Black Spanish,
      Long Black Spanish, White Winter Spanish, Celestial,
      White Mammoth, Scarlet Chinese
    Chicory
    Salsify
    Burnet
    Okra.--Long Green, White Velvet Pod, Dwarf Green Improved,
      Green Prolific
    Martynia
Tioga County. Silver medal,
    Potatoes
Tompkins County. Grand prize
    Vegetables
Walter Van Loon, Bath
    Beets
W. P. Vanscoter, Bath
    Onions
    Parsnips
    Salsify
H. S. Vermilyea, Chelsea. Silver medal
    Potatoes.--Thorburn, Money Maker, Sir Walter Raleigh,
      New Queen, Carmen No. I, Acme, Bovee, Irish Cobler, Carmen
      No. 3, White Star
Warren County. Grand prize
    Vegetables
Washington County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Wayne County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Westchester County. Silver medal
    Potatoes
Charles Wheelhouse, Fulton. Bronze medal
    Beets.--Detroit Red Blood
    Onions.--Red Wethersfield, Yellow Danvers
D. M. White, Bath
    Carrots
    Mangels
------ Wrenwick, Wellsville
    Potatoes.--Elephant
A. Young, Bath
    Onions

GROUPS EIGHTY-FIVE, NINETY-ONE AND NINETY-TWO

Animal Food Products, Waters, Wines, etc.

John Abd-et-nour, New York city. Silver medal
    Silk worms and cocoons
J. A. Anderson, Mooers Forks. Silver medal
    Butter
Barson & Co., A. S., 40 West street, New York city. Gold medal
    Cigarettes
J. W. Beardsley's Sons, New York city. Gold medal
    Bacon, dried and smoked beef, shredded codfish and star boneless
      herring put up in glass and tin
Sarah Drowne Belcher, M. D., New York city. Bronze medal
    Book on clean milk
Borden's Condensed Milk, New York city. Gold medal
    Condensed milk
John Brand & Co., Packers, Elmira. Gold medal
    Leaf tobacco
Breesport Water Co., Elmira. Silver medal
    Carbonated table water
Brotherhood Wine Co., New York city. Grand prize
    Wines and champagnes
A. C. Brown, Cincinnatus. Silver medal
    Butter
Natural Mineral Water Co., Saratoga Springs. Gold medal
    Carbonated table water
Congress Spring Co., Saratoga Springs. Gold medal
    Carbonated table water
Curtice Brothers. Rochester. Gold medal
    Canned fruits, vegetables, meats and catsups in glass and tin
Dedrick & Son, P. K., Albany. Grand prize
    Hay presses
F. De Garmo, Rochester. Gold medal
    Tobacco
Jonas Dillenback, Cobleskill. Silver medal
    Pressed hops
Duffy's Malt Whiskey Co., Rochester. Gold medal
    Whiskies
J. H. Durkee, Collaborator, New York State Exhibit. Gold medal
    Collectively and installation specialty
Henry Eibert, Thorn Hill. Silver medal
    Butter
Erie Preserving Co., Buffalo. Gold medal
    Canned fruit and vegetables in tin and glass
Excelsior Springs Co., Saratoga. Gold medal
    Carbonated table water
France Milling Co., Cobleskill. Gold medal
    Buckwheat flour
Germania Wine Cellars, Hammondsport. Gold medal
    Champagnes
Gleason Grape Juice Co., Fredonia. Silver medal
    Grape juice
Gordon & Dilworth, New York city. Gold medal
    Canned fruits, meats and catsups in glass and tin
Emit Greiner, 78 John street, New York city. Silver medal
    Dairy glass ware
Hammondsport Wine Co., Hammondsport. Grand prize
    Exhibit of canned goods, meats, preserves
New York State Exhibit. Gold medal
    Cheese
New York State Exhibit. Gold medal
    Butter
Paterson's Mineral Springs, Saratoga Springs. Silver medal
    Grape juice
H. Brown Richardson, Lowville. Gold medal
    Maple sugar and syrup
Ripin Wine Co., New York city. Silver medal
    Champagne
T. F. Rutherford, Madrid. Grand prize
    Cigars
Urbana Wine Co., Urbana. Gold medal
    Wines and champagnes
S. E. Van Horn, Durham. Silver medal
    Butter
C. A. Weatherly & Co., Milford. Bronze medal
    Cheese
J. O. Weeks, New York city. Silver medal
    Ice cream powder
Welch Grape Juice Co., Westfield. Silver medal
    Grape juice
White Top Champagne Co., Hammondsport. Gold medal
    Champagne
Worcester Salt Co., New York city. Gold medal
    Table and dairy salt

The following is a catalogue of exhibitors in the Department of Live Stock with the awards,
if any, received by each

GROUP NINETY-EIGHT

Cattle

AYRSHIRES--SEVEN HERDS COMPETING

W. P. Schenck, Avon
    Bull, 3 years old or over. Fifth premium, $30.
    Bull, 1 vear and under 2 years. First premium, $50.
    Cow, 3 years old or over. Fifth premium, $30.
    Heifer, 2 years and under 4. Third and fourth premiums,
      $90.
    Heifer, 1 year and under 2. Third premium, $30.
    Get of one sire. Second premium, $65.
    Produce of one cow. Second and fifth premiums, $105.
    Aged herd. Fourth premium, $65.
    Young herd. Third premium, $55.
    Aged herd, bred by exhibitor. Second premium, $100.
    Young herd, bred by exhibitor. Third premium, $55.

BROWN SWISS--SEVEN HERDS COMPETING

F. R. Hazzard, Syracuse
    Bull, 3 years old or over. First and fifth premiums, $70.
    Bull, 2 years and under 3. First premium, $50.
    Bull, 18 months and under 2 years. Second and fifth
      premiums, $60.
    Bull, 12 months and under I8. First and third premiums, $60.
    Bull under 6 months. Second and fourth premiums, $50.
    Cow, 3 years old or over. First and third premiums, $80.
    Heifer, 2 years old and under 3. Second premium, $40.
    Heifer, 18 months and under 24. First and third premiums, $80.
    Heifer, 12 months and under 18. Third premium, $25.
    Heifer, 6 months and under 12. Second and fifth premiums, $45.
    Heifer, under 6 months. Third and fifth premiums, $40.
    Get of one sire. First premium, $50.
    Produce of one cow. Second and third premiums, $75.
    Aged herd. First premium, $75.
    Young herd. Third premium, $35.
    Herd bred by exhibitor. Third premium.
    Champion bull, 2 years old or over. $80.
    Champion cow, 2 years old or over. $80.
    Grand champion bull. $125.
    Grand champion cow. $125.
McLaury Bros. & Freemeyer, Portlandville
    Bull, 3 years old or over. Fourth premium, $25.
    Bull, 2 years and under 3. Fifth premium, $40.
    Bull, 18 months and under 2 years. First premium, $50.
    Bull, 6 months and under 12. First premium, $35.
    Bull under 6 months. First premium, $35.
    Cow, 3 years old or over. Second and fifth premiums,
      $60.
    Heifer, 2 years old and under 3. First premium, $50.
    Heifer, 12 months and under IS. Fourth premium, $20.
    Heifer, 6 months and under 12. First premium, $35.
    Get of one sire. Second premium, $40.
    Produce of one cow. First and fourth premiums, $75.
    Aged herd. Third premium, $60.
    Young herd. First premium, $50.
    Herd bred by exhibitor. $200.
    Champion bull under 2 years old. $60.
    Champion cow under 2 years old. $60.

JERSEYS--TEN HERDS COMPETING

McLaury Bros. & Freemeyer, Portlandville
    Bull, 2 years old and under 3. Fourth premium, $40.

KERRYS--ONE HERD COMPETING

G. M. Carnochan, New York city
    One prize for herd

SCOTCH HIGHLANDS--ONE HERD COMPETING

Warner M. Van Worden, Rye
    One prize for herd

GUERNSEYS--SEVEN HERDS COMPETING

C. C. Taylor, Lawton Station
    Bull, 3 years old and over. First premium, $75.
    Bull, 2 years old and under 3. Fifth premium, $30.
    Bull, 1 year and under 2. Second premium, $40.
    Bull under 1 year. Second premium, $40.
    Heifer, 2 and under 3 years. Fourth premium, $40.
    Heifer, 1 and under 2 years. Third premium, $30.
    Heifer under 1 year. Third and fifth premiums, $50.
    Get of one sire. Second premium, $65.
    Produce of one cow. Fifth premium, $40.
    Aged herd. Second premium, $100.
    Young herd. First premium, $75.
F. B. Buckley, Schaghticoke
    Cow, 3 years old or over. Fifth premium, $30.
    Heifer, 1 and under 2 years. Fourth and fifth premiums, $45.
    Get of one sire. Third premium, $55.
    Produce of one cow. Fourth premium, $45.
    Young herd, bred by exhibitor. Fifth premium, $40.

GROUP NINETY-NINE

Sheep

SHROPSHIRES

SEVEN FLOCKS COMPETING--TWO FROM NEW YORK

L. D. Rumsey, Lewiston
    Ram, 2 years old or over. Fifth prize, $20.
    Ram, 12 months and under 16. Fourth prize, $30.
    Ram, 6 months and under 12. Fifth prize, $15.
    Ewe, 2 years old and over. First and fourth prizes, $80.
    Ewe, 12 months and under 18. Second prize, $45.
    Champion ewe, 1 year old or over. First prize, $80.
    Grand champion ewe. First prize, $100.
    Four animals, get of one sire. First prize, $60.
    Two animals, produce of one ewe. First prize, $40.
    Aged flock. Fourth prize, $25.
    Young flock. Second prize, $40.
H. L. Wardwell, New York city
    Ram, 12 months and under 18. Fifth prize, $20.
    Ram, 6 months and under 12. First prize, $35.
    Ram under 6 months. Second prize, $30.
    Ewe, 2 years old and over. Second prize, $45.
    Ewe, 12 months and under 18. Fourth prize, $30.
    Ewe, 6 months and under 12. Fifth prize, $15.
    Ewe under 6 months. Second and fourth prizes, $50.
    Champion ram under 1 year old. First prize, $50.
    Four animals, get of one sire. Second prize, $50.
    Two animals, produce of one ewe. Fourth prize, $20.
    Aged flock. Third prize, $30.
    Young flock. Third prize, $25.
CHEVIOTS
EIGHT FLOCKS COMPETING--ONE FROM NEW YORK
William Curry & Son, Hartwick
    Ram, 2 years old or over. Second prize, $30.
    Ram, 18 months and under 24. First prize, $35.
    Ram, 12 months and under 18. Second prize, $30.
    Ewe, 2 years old or over. First prize, $35.
    Ewe, 18 months and under 24. Third prize, $25.
    Ewe, 12 months and under 18. Fourth prize, $20.
    Ewe, 6 months and under 12. Third prize, $15.
    Champion ewe, 1 year old or over. First prize, $60.
    Grand champion ewe. First prize, $75.
    Four animals, get of one sire. Second prize, $30.
    Two animals, produce of one ewe. First prize, $25.
    Aged flock. First prize, $50.
    Young flock. Second prize, $30.
    Breeder's flock. First prize, $150.
MERINOS
THIRTEEN FLOCKS COMPETING--ONE FROM NEW YORK
D.K. Bell, Brighton
    Ram, 2 years old or over. First and second prizes, $65.
    Ram, 12 months and under 18 months. First and second prizes, $65.
    Ram under 6 months. Second and third prizes, $35.
    Ewe, 2 years old or over. First and second prizes, $65.
    Ewe, 18 months and under 24. First prize, $35.
    Ewe, 12 months and under 18. First and second prizes, $60.
    Ewe under 6 months. First and fourth prizes, $35.
    Champion ram, 1 year old or over. First prize, $60.
    Champion ewe over 1 year old. First and second prizes, $40.
    Champion ewe under 1 year old. First prize, $40.
    Grand champion ram. First prize, $75.
    Grand champion ewe. First prize. $75.
    Four animals, get of one sire. First and second prizes, $70.
    Two animals, produce of one ewe. First and second prizes,
      $45
    Aged flock. First and second prizes, $90.
    Young flock. First and second prizes, $70.
    Breeder's flock. First prize, $150.
    Exhibitor's flock. First prize, diploma. Fourth and fifth prizes, $35.
    Ram, 12 months and under 18. First and third prizes, $60.
    Ram, 6 months and under 12. Fourth prize, $10.
    Ewe, 2 years old or over. First and fifth prizes, $50.
    Ewe, 18 months and under 24. First and third prizes, $60.
    Ewe, 6 months and under 12. Fifth prize, $8.
    Ewe under 6 months. Second and fourth prizes, $30.
    Champion ewe, 1 year or over. First and second prizes, $60.
    Grand champion ewe. Second prize, diploma.
    Four animals, get of one sire. First and fourth prizes, $60.
    Two animals, produce of one ewe. Third prize, $15.
    Aged flock. First and fourth prizes, $70.
    Young flock. Third prize, $25.

GROUP ONE HUNDRED ONE

SWINE

TWO HERDS OF SWINE WERE EXHIBITED FROM NEW YORK

YORKSHIRE

A. Vroman, Carthage
    Boar, 2 years old or over. Fifth prize, $15.
    Sow, 2 years old or over. Third prize, $25.

CHESHIRES

S. G. Otis, Sherwood
    Herd bred by exhibitor. First prize, $150.

GROUP ONE HUNDRED THREE

BELGIAN HARES

Jennie M. Lockwood, Reading Center
    Doe, 4 and under 6 months, Daisy 91. Second prize
Charles Hilts, Cobleskill
    Doe under 4 months, Anona 94. Second prize
    Black Belgian buck, over 6 months, Black Jack, Jr., 102. First prize
    White Belgian Doe, over 6 months, Lady Day 96. First prize
    White Belgian doe, under 6 months, Opal 95. First prize

GROUP ONE HUNDRED FOUR

Poultry

Edgewood Farm, Ballston Lake
    Buff Plymouth Rock, cock. First prize
    Buff Plymouth Rock, cockerel. Sixth prize
    Buff Plymouth Rock, pullet. Second prize
    Buff Plymouth Rock, breeding pen. Seventh prize
Greystone Poultry Farm, Yonkers
    White Plymouth Rock, cock. Third prize
    Single Comb Black Minorcas, pullet. Fourth prize
    Single Comb Black Minorcas, pullet. Sixth prize
    Single Comb Black Minorcas, breeding pen. First prize
George W. Hillson, Amenia
    White Plymouth Rock, pullet. First prize
    Dark Brahma Bantam, breeding pen. Fifth prize
    Light Brahma Bantam, cock. Sixth prize
    Light Brahma Bantam, hen. Fifth prize
    Light Brahma Bantam, pullet. Sixth prize
    Light Brahma Bantam, pullet. Fourth prize
W.T. Lord, Troy
    Buff Wyandotte, cock. Third prize
    Buff Wyandotte, cock. Fifth prize
    Buff Wyandotte, cockerel. First prize
    Buff Wyandotte, cockerel. Fourth prize
    Buff Wyandotte, cockerel. Fifth prize
    Buff Wyandotte, hen. Sixth prize
    Buff Wyandotte, hen. Seventh prize
    Buff Wyandotte, pullet. Fourth prize
    Buff Wyandotte, breeding pen. Seventh prize
    Partridge Wyandotte, pullet. Sixth prize
    Partridge Wyandotte, breeding pen. Second prize
    Silver Penciled Wyandotte, cock. First prize
    Silver Penciled Wyandotte, hen. First prize
    Silver Penciled Wyandotte, breeding pen. Second prize
    Black Leghorn, cock. First prize
    Black Leghorn, cock. Fourth prize
    Black Leghorn, cockerel. Second prize
    Black Leghorn, hen. Second prize
    Black Leghorn, hen. Third prize
    Black Leghorn, pullet. Second prize
    Black Leghorn, pullet. Fourth prize
    Black Leghorn, breeding pen. First prize
    Black Leghorn, breeding pen. Third prize
    Single Comb Buff Leghorn, cock. Second prize
    Single Comb Buff Leghorn, breeding pen. First prize
    Single Comb White Leghorn, cock. Second prize
    Single Comb White Leghorn, cockerel. Third prize
    Single Comb White Leghorn, hen. Third prize
    Single Comb White Leghorn, hen. Fourth prize
    Single Comb White Leghorn, pullet. Third prize
E.A. Parks, Syracuse
    Partridge Wyandotte, breeding pen. Fifth prize
R.F. Alden, Deposit
    Silver Wyandotte, pullet. Sixth prize
W.R. Curtiss & Co., Ransomville
    White Wyandotte, hen. Sixth prize
    White Wyandotte, breeding pen. Third prize
    Pekin Ducks, cock. Seventh prize
    Pekin Ducks, hen. Fifth prize
D. Lincoln Orr, Orr's Mills
    White Wyandotte, pullet. Sixth prize
    Dark Brahma Bantams, breeding pen. Third prize
    Dark Brahma Bantams, breeding pen. Fourth prize
    Dark Brahma Bantams, breeding pen. Sixth prize
    Dark Brahma Bantams, breeding pen. Seventh prize
    Light Brahma Bantams, cock. Fourth prize
    Light Brahma Bantams, hen. Fourth prize
    Light Brahma Bantams, hen. Fifth prize
    Light Brahma Bantams, hen. Sixth prize
    Light Brahma Bantams, hen. Seventh prize
    Light Brahma Bantams, pullet. Fourth prize
    Light Brahma Bantams, breeding pen. First prize
    Light Brahma Bantams, breeding pen. Third prize
J.M. Linnett, Baldwinsville
    Light Brahma, breeding pen. Seventh prize
J.F. Knox, Buffalo
    White Langshans, hen. First prize
    White Langshans, hen. Fourth prize
    White Langshans, pullet. Fifth prize
    White Langshans, breeding pen. First prize
    Black Cochin Bantams, cock. Third prize
    Black Cochin Bantams, cock. Sixth prize
    Black Cochin Bantams, cock. Seventh prize
    Black Cochin Bantams, cockerel. Sixth prize
    Black Cochin Bantams, cockerel. Seventh prize
    Black Cochin Bantams, hen. Third prize
    Black Cochin Bantams, pullet. First prize
Edwin H. Morris, Sparkill
    Houdans, cock. Fourth prize
    Houdans, hen. Fourth prize
    Houdans, pullet. Sixth prize
    Houdans, breeding pen. Fourth prize
    Black East Indian Ducks, cock. Second prize
    Rouen Ducks, cock. Fourth prize
    Rouen Ducks, cock. Seventh prize
    Rouen Ducks, cockerel. Fifth prize
    Rouen Ducks, cockerel. Sixth prize
    Rouen Ducks, hen. Third prize
    Rouen Ducks, hen. Seventh prize
    Rouen Ducks, pullet. Fourth prize
    Rouen Ducks, pullet. Fifth prize
E.F. McAvoy, Schenectady
    Houdans, cockerel. Third prize
    Houdans, hen. First prize
    Houdans, pullet. Fourth prize
    Houdans, breeding pen. Third prize
Henry Scheyer, Lake View
    Anconas Mottled, hen. Fourth prize
    Anconas Mottled, hen. Fifth prize
    Anconas Mottled, pullet. First prize
R.H. Quackenbush, Baldwinsville
    Blue Andalusians, cock. Fourth prize
    Blue Andalusians, pullet. Sixth prize
Storm King Poultry Yards, Cornwall-on-Hudson
    Blue Andalusians, pullet. Fourth prize
E.B. Cridler, Dansville
    S.C.B. Leghorns, cockerel. Fourth prize
    S.C.B. Leghorns, pullet. Third prize
    S.C.B. Leghorns, pullet. Fourth prize
    S.C.B. Leghorns, breeding pen. Fourth prize
William T. Liddell, Greenwich
    S.C.B. Leghorns, pullet. Fifth prize
    Rose Comb Brown Leghorns, cock. First prize
    Rose Comb Brown Leghorns, cockerel. Fifth prize
H.S. Lamson, Cameron
    Rose Comb Brown Leghorns, hen. Third prize
S.E. Smith, Norwich
    Single Comb White Leghorns, cockerel. Sixth prize
Irving F. Rice, Cortland
    Single Comb White Leghorns, hen. First prize
J.H. Santee, Yonkers
    Single Comb Black Minorcas, cock. Second prize
    Single Comb Black Minorcas, cock. Sixth prize
    Single Comb Black Minorcas, hen. Fourth prize
Charles L. Seely, Afton
    White Crested Black Polish, cock. Sixth prize
    White Crested Black Polish, cockerel. Fourth prize
    White Crested Black Polish, hen. Seventh prize
    White Crested Black Polish, pullet. First prize
Dr. A.H. Phelps, Glens Falls
    Black Cochin Bantams, hen. Seventh prize
    Black Japanese Bantams, hen. First prize
    Black Japanese Bantams, hen. Sixth prize
    Black Japanese Bantams, breeding pen. First prize
    Black Tailed Japanese Bantams, cock. Fifth prize
    Black Tailed Japanese Bantams, hen. Fifth prize
    Black Tailed Japanese Bantams, breeding pen. Second prize
    Booted White Bantams, cock. Second prize
    Booted White Bantams, hen. Second prize
    Dark Brahma Bantams, cock. First prize
    Dark Brahma Bantams, hen. Third prize
    Dark Brahma Bantams, pullet. First prize
    Cochin Partridge Bantams, cock. Fifth prize
    White Cochin Bantams, cock. Sixth prize
    Polish Buff Laced Bantams, cock. First prize
    Polish Buff Laced Bantams, hen. Second prize
    White Crested White Polish Bantams, cock. Second prize
    White Crested White Polish Bantams, hen. Fourth prize
    White Crested White Polish Bantams, hen. Fifth prize
    White Crested White Bearded Polish Bantams, cock. Third prize
    White Crested White Bearded Polish Bantams, cockerel. Fifth prize
    Black African Bantams, cock. Seventh prize
    White African Bantams, cock. Third prize
    White African Bantams, cockerel. Fourth prize
    White African Bantams, hen. Fourth prize
    White African Bantams, pullet. Fifth prize
    Golden Seabright Bantams, hen. Second prize
    Silver Seabright Bantams, cock. Sixth prize
    Birchen, cock. First prize
    Birchen, hen. First prize
    Black Breasted Red Bantams, cock. Second Prize
    Black Breasted Red Bantams, hen. Fourth prize
    Golden Duckling, cock. First prize
    Golden Duckling, cockerel. Second prize
    Golden Duckling, pullet. Second prize
    Silver Duckling, cock. Second prize
    Silver Duckling, cockerel. First prize
    Silver Duckling, hen
    Silver Duckling, pullet. Second prize
    Red Pyle Game Bantams, cock. Second prize
    Miscellaneous Frissles, hen. Sixth prize
    Miscellaneous Silkies, cock. Third prize
    Miscellaneous Silkies, hen. First prize
    Miscellaneous Sultans, pullet. Second prize
    Indian Game Bantams, cock. Second prize
    Indian Game Bantams, cockerel. First prize
    Indian Game Bantams, hen. Second prize
    Indian Game Bantams, pullet. Second prize
    N.Y. Salmon Faverolles, cock. First prize
    N.Y. Ermine Faverolles, cock. First prize
    N.Y. Salmon Faverolles, cock. Second prize
    N.Y. Black Faverolle, cockerel. First prize
    N.Y. Salmon Faverolle, cockerel. First prize
    N.Y. Salmon Faverolle, cockerel. Second prize
    N.Y. Ermine Faverolle, hen. First prize
    N.Y. Salmon Faverolle, hen. First prize
    N.Y. Salmon Faverolle, hen. Second prize
    N.Y. Ermine Faverolle, pullet. First prize
    N.Y. Blue Faverolle, pullet. First prize
    N.Y. Black Faverolle, pullet. First prize
    N.Y. Salmon Faverolle, breeding pen. Second prize
    Barred White Plymouth Rock, bantams, cock. First prize
    Barred White Plymouth Rock, cockerel. First prize
    Barred White Plymouth Rock, pullet. First prize
    Barred White Plymouth Rock, breeding pen. First prize
    Rumpless, cock. Second prize
    Rumpless, hen. Second prize
    Sicilian, cock. First prize
    Sicilian, hen. First prize
    Campinos, hen. First prize
    Gray Japanese Bantam, cock. Second prize
    Gray Japanese Bantam, hen. Second prize
    Lakenfelders, cock. First prize
    Lakenfelders, cock. Second prize
    Lakenfelders, cock. Fourth prize
    Lakenfelders, cockerel. Fourth prize
    Lakenfelders, hen. Fourth prize
    Campines, pullet. First prize
    Campines, breeding pen. First prize
    Cuckoo Cochins, cock. First prize
    Cuckoo Cochins, cockerel. First prize
    Cuckoo Cochins, hen. First prize
    Cuckoo Cochins, pullet. First prize
    Rose Comb Blues, cock. First prize
    Rose Comb Blues, cockerel. First prize
    Rose Comb Blues, hen. First prize
    Rose Comb Blues, pullet. First prize
W.A. Smith, Whitney's Point
    Black African Bantams, hen. Third prize
    Black Cochin Bantams, hen. Second prize
    Brown Red Game Bantams, cockerel. Second prize
    Brown Red Game Bantams, pullet. Second prize
    Buff Cochin Bantams, hen. Seventh prize
    Gray Call Ducks, cock. First prize
    White Call Ducks, hen. First prize
J.A. Sprakers, Sprakers
    White Game, cockerel. Second prize
    White Game, pullet. Second prize
    White Game, pullet. Third prize
    White Game, breeding pen: Second prize
G.B. Babcock, Jamestown
    Toulouse Geese, cock. Seventh prize
    Toulouse Geese, cockerel. Second prize
    Toulouse Geese, cockerel. Fourth prize
    Toulouse Geese, hen. Fourth prize
    Toulouse Geese, pullet. Second prize
    Toulouse Geese, pullet. Fourth prize
Jonas Hayner, Livingston
    S.C. White Orpingtons, cockerel. Seventh prize

Pigeons

J.F. Knox, Buffalo
    Red or Yellow Fantail, cock. Second prize
    Red Fantail, hen, Second prize
    Red or Yellow Fantail, 1904. Sixth prize
    Any Color Saddle Fantail, cock. Third prize
    Any Color Saddle Fantail, cock. Fourth prize
    Any Color Saddle Fantail, hen. First prize
    Any Color Saddle Fantail, 1904. Third prize
    Any Color Saddle Fantail, 1904. Fourth prize
    Black Pigmy Pouter, hen. Fifth prize
    Black Pigmy Pouter, 1904. Fourth prize
    Red or Yellow Pigmy Pouter, cock. Second prize
    Red or Yellow Pigmy Pouter, 1904. Third prize
    Red or Yellow Pigmy Pouter, 1904. Fourth prize
    Red or Yellow Pigmy Pouter, 1904. Seventh prize
    White Pigmy Pouter, hen. Second prize
J.H. Duer, Buffalo
    White Working Homer, cock. Third prize
    White Working Homer, hen. Sixth prize
    White Working Homer, 1904. Fourth prize
    White Working Homer, 1904. Fifth prize
Dr. L.H. Jones, Rome
    Black Pigmy Pouter, cock. Fourth prize
    Blue Pigmy Pouter, cock Sixth prize
    Blue Pigmy Pouter, hen. Second prize
    Blue Pigmy Pouter, hen. Sixth prize
    Blue Pigmy Pouter, 1904. Sixth prize
    Red or Yellow Pigmy Pouter, cock. Fourth prize
    Red or Yellow Pigmy Pouter, hen. Fifth prize
    Silver Pigmy Pouter, hen. Second prize
    Silver Pigmy Pouter, 1904. Second prize
    White Pigmy Pouter, cock. Fourth prize
    White Pigmy Pouter, 1904. First prize
    White Pigmy Pouter, 1904. Fourth prize
    Any Other Color Pigmy Pouter, hen. Second prize
    Any Other Color Pigmy Pouter, 1904. Fifth prize
J.A. Sprakers, Sprakers
    Blue Runts, hen. Third prize
    Damascene, cock. First prize
    Damascene, hen. First prize
A. Samuels, Buffalo
    Black Snip Swallow, cock. Second prize
    Black Snip Swallow, hen. Second prize
    Black Snip Swallow, hen. Fourth prize
    Black Snip Swallow, 1904. Second prize
    Black Snip Swallow, 1904. Third prize
    Blue Snip Swallow, cock. Third prize
    Blue Snip Swallow, hen. Fourth prize
    Blue Snip Swallow, 1904. First prize
    Blue Snip Swallow, 1904. Second prize
    Red Snip Swallow, cock. First prize
    Red Snip Swallow, 1904. Second prize
    Any Other Color Snip Swallow, cock. Third prize
    Any Other Color Snip Swallow, hen. Third prize
    Full Head White Barred Swallow cock. First prize
    Roller Parlor Tumblers, hen. Second prize

CHAPTER XII

Horticulture Exhibit and Schedule of Awards

HORTICULTURE EXHIBIT

By CHARLES H. VICK

Superintendent of Horticulture

At a meeting of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission of the State of New York, held
June 10, 1903, Charles H. Vick, of Rochester, N.Y., was appointed as Superintendent of Horticulture,
and an appropriation of $15,000 was made for the exhibit in that department. This amount was
subsequently increased to $20,000. The work was inaugurated July first, and offices were opened
at 46 Elwood building, Rochester, N.Y.

METHODS OF SOLICITING FRUIT

Many hundred letters were mailed to the fruit growers of the State soliciting the donation
of fruit for an exhibit at St. Louis. The number of replies received was so small that it was
necessary again to circularize the growers offering to pay a reasonable price for exhibition
fruit. Even this offer did not bring forth anything like a sufficient quantity of fruit to
make a suitable exhibit. The State was then divided into six sections and competent men appointed
to canvass thoroughly each section and buy fruit. A large collection of fine specimens of fruit
were procured by this method, and as a result of this canvass exhibits were procured from every
fruit growing county in the State. This fruit was all collected at the Gleason cold storage
warehouse at Brighton, near Rochester, N.Y., and on December 1, 1903, a shipment of two cars,
containing four hundred barrels of apples, fifty-five bushel boxes of pears and forty baskets
of grapes were forwarded to the Mound City cold storage warehouse at St. Louis.

LOCATION OF EXHIBIT

The exhibit was housed in the Palace of Horticulture, which, although located in a somewhat
remote part of the grounds, received its full share of Exposition visitors, all of whom were
deeply interested in the magnificent displays of fruit found there.

The State of New York was assigned 4,000 square feet of space advantageously located near the
northeast corner of the building. To the west were the exhibits of Illinois and Missouri, and
to the east those of Minnesota and Washington, while Colorado bounded New York on the south
and Pennsylvania on the north. In August, New York was assigned the space surrendered by Pennsylvania,
approximately 1,200 square feet, to accommodate the large exhibit of grapes from the Central
New York growers and from the Chautauqua Grape and Wine Association.

THE INSTALLATION

The space included three distinct sections, Nos. 40, 41 and 43, completely surrounded by aisles,
thus affording an excellent opportunity of viewing the exhibit from all sides. On account of
this an open installation was erected. Around section 43 was thrown an open facade, consisting
of columns supporting a handsome cornice, which bore the coat of arms of the State and the
words "The State of New York" on each side. On the cornice rested fifteen fine specimens of
Boston ferns.

The fruit was displayed upon tables of varying lengths and from three to four feet in width.
In the center of this space was the office of the Superintendent. Sections 40 and 41 were within
the zone in which low installation was required by the Exposition authorities, so that no facade
was erected in these sections, the name of the State being shown upon handsome ornamental gilt
signs, placed upon the tables and suspended over the exhibit. The entire installation was of
white enamel, kept spotlessly clean. The plates used were of special design. The center was
white, with the monogram in green letters, "L. P. E., 1904," and a wide green border, with
a gold band. The white and green furnished a most appropriate background for the varicolored
fruit and the effect was most pleasing as the eye swept over the whole exhibit.

A WORD OF COMMENDATION

On the opening day of the Fair, April thirtieth, New York's exhibit of fruit was complete in
every detail. In fact of the thirty-five States, Canada and Mexico represented, New York was
the only State to have its exhibit installed and ready for exhibition when the doors of the
Palace of Horticulture were thrown open to the public, which called forth a special word of
commendation from the Chief of the Department of Horticulture, Honorable F. W. Taylor. Owing
to the fact that at that time the other States were not prepared to make a display, it was
deemed inadvisable to exhibit a large number of varieties, so that while the entire space was
covered with fruit, the exhibit consisted of but thirty-one varieties of apples, ten of pears
and three of grapes, as follows:

Apples: Fallawater, Swarr, Golden Russet, Snow,
  Belleflower, Sweet Russet, Cline's Red, Red Rock, Holland
  Pippin, Hubbardston Nonesuch, Deacon Jones,
  Judson, Sklanka Bog, Peach, Sutton Beauty, Flower of
  Genesee, Baldwin, Lady, Kirkland Pippin, Greening,
  Spitzenburg, Northern Spy, Walbridge, Seek-no-Further,
  McIntosh, Grimes' Golden, Wagener, Mann, Roxbury,
  Russet, King, Canada Red
Pears: Kieffer, Duchess, Vergalieu, Josephine, Diel,
  Beurre d'Anjou, Beurre Bosc, Lawrence, Mt. Vernon,
  Beurre Clairgeau
Grapes: Virgennes, Diana, Catawba

A HIGH STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE

From the opening to the close of the Fair, December first, New York's exhibit of fruit was
maintained at a uniformly high standard of excellence. The total number of varieties of fruit
exhibited was as follows:

Apples ......... 424 varieties Cherries .......  31 " Currants .......   4 " Gooseberries ...
1 " Grapes ......... 150 " Pears .......... 152 " Plums .......... 129 " Quinces ........ 
8 " Peaches ........  14 " Strawberries ...   1 "

The Empire State far outstripped her sister States as to number of varieties of fruit, displaying
twice as many varieties of apples, pears and plums, and more than three times as many varieties
of grapes as her nearest competitor, and this be it said, in a display of fruits never before
equaled either in size, variety or quality.

RECORD OF ENTRIES

Over 2,000 individual entries of fruit were made during the season, and as all of the fruit
was entered twice, once for the general collection of the State and again for the grower, the
total number of entries was nearly five thousand. An accurate record was kept of all entries,
the following information being carefully tabulated: The name and address of the exhibitor.
Date of removal from cold storage. Date placed upon the table. Date of removal from the table.
Remarks concerning its condition.

FRUIT of 1904

The new fruit of the fall of 1904, while free from rust and of good color, was somewhat smaller
in size than the fruit of 1903; nevertheless it made a grand display, and from the opening
to the close of the Fair from 2,000 to 2,500 plates of fruit, including never less than 150
varieties of apples, were admired by the thousands of visitors.

APPLES

The apples placed in cold storage at St. Louis in December of 1903 were found to be in almost
perfect condition when opened in April, and, with a few exceptions, continued so throughout
the season. Most of the apples were wrapped first in tissue and then in oiled paper and firmly
packed in barrels well lined with corrugated paper, with excelsior cushions in each end.

Owing to the fact that so much depends upon the condition of fruit when picked, and the necessity
of placing it in cold storage as soon as picked, it was a difficult matter to make a comparative
test of the keeping qualities of the different varieties. For instance, of two different collections
of Baldwins (one of the best keepers), placed on the tables at the same time, one lot held
up in perfect condition for several weeks while the other went down in as many days.

The varieties showing the best keeping qualities were Baldwin, Spitzenberg, Russet, Northern
Spy and Canada Red. These varieties were kept in cold storage and placed on the tables as late
in the season as November fifteenth, when they were found to have retained their color, firmness
and flavor.

Some of the fall varieties, which are ordinarily supposed to be poor keepers, came out of cold
storage in perfect condition and kept remarkably well after being placed on the tables. Among
these the Alexander, Fallawater, Holland Pippin, McIntosh and Rome Beauty were the best.

A collection of Fallawaters from W.R. Fitch, of Rushville, N.Y., were placed on the tables
April twenty-ninth, when they attracted considerable attention on account of their unusual
size and fine color, and remained in splendid condition for weeks. While somewhat shriveled
and dried up, they showed no signs of decay when removed from the tables July twentieth. The
same is true of a collection of Holland Pippins and McIntoshes placed on exhibition at the
same time.

A collection of Alexanders from J.B. Collamer, of Hilton, will serve as an illustration of
the advantages of picking at the proper time, handling with care and placing in cold storage
immediately. These apples were exhibited for a week at the State Fair held at Syracuse in September
of 1903. They were then wrapped, packed and sent to St. Louis, where they were kept in cold
storage until June twenty-sixth, when they were placed on exhibition until after the visit
of Governor Odell, June twenty-ninth. On June thirtieth they were rewrapped and repacked and
sent back to cold storage until a few days before the State Fair at Syracuse in September of
1904, when they were shipped to Syracuse and again exhibited for a week. At the close of the
State Fair they were again returned to St. Louis and exhibited for two weeks.

The Newtown Pippin is another variety which showed excellent keeping qualities. On August twelfth
a collection of forty-six plates from Henry D. Lewis, of Annandale, was taken out of cold storage
and placed on exhibition. They held up in good condition until the thirtieth of August, during
the hottest weather of the season.

The Greenings, while large in size, of fine color, and apparently in perfect condition when
packed, invariably came out of cold storage badly scalded and discolored. In fact, there were
only three or four lots which were entirely free from scald.

In September, large additions of new fruit were made to the exhibit from individual growers,
and also from the New York Agricultural Experiment Station at Geneva.

George W. Anderson, Charles N. Baker, Samuel J. Wells and T.H. King are among the exhibitors
who deserve special mention for the quality and extent of their exhibits.

A complete list of the 424 varieties of apples exhibited appears following the list of exhibitors.

GRAPES

The grape industry of New York had adequate and successful representation at the St. Louis
Exposition, as a department of the general Horticultural Exhibit. This industry in New York
is one of large and steadily increasing importance. The State ranks second only to California
in the production of grapes, and the showing made in the Horticulture building was a revelation
to thousands of visitors who there obtained their first knowledge of the extent of the viticulture
industry in New York.

This sign was conspicuously displayed over the exhibit of grapes:

"NEW YORK LEADS IN TABLE GRAPES

"600,000 acres; 30,000,000 vines; crop worth $2,763,711 annually."

These figures are from census reports, and represent an advance of 198 per cent in the industry
over its condition as represented at the Columbian Exposition in 1893. There is scarcely another
such record of increase in the whole range of industries of the United States.

No attempt was made to show viticulture in any other way than by its product, but an almost
continuous display of grapes was kept on the tables from the opening of the Exposition to its
close. This in itself was a noteworthy achievement, for it included a display of cold storage
grapes from the crop of 1903 up to the second week of July, 1904, something never before attempted.
A display of forced fruit and early varieties began shortly after that date.

A collection of hot-house grapes grown by Mr. David M. Dunning, of Auburn, was an interesting
feature of the grape exhibit and amazed crowds of visitors on account of their size and handsome
appearance. The varieties were Barbarossa and Muscat Hamburg. One cluster of the latter variety
weighed nine pounds and measured seventeen inches in length, exclusive of stem. This collection
of grapes far surpassed anything of the kind shown in the Horticulture building, not even excepting
California specimens.

The varieties in cold storage were as follows: Catawba, Diana, Iona, Isabella, Niagara, Salem
and Virgennes. Of these varieties, the Catawba and Virgennes kept the longest. They were taken
from cold storage July third and placed upon exhibition for a week, at the end of which time
they were found to have retained their color and flavor perfectly. This was fully one month
later than grapes were preserved at the Pan-American Exposition, notwithstanding the difference
in distance between Buffalo and St. Louis from the vineyards. The Diana and Iona were close
seconds in keeping qualities, while the Isabella rattled badly and the Niagara showed discoloration,
though both retained fairly good flavor.

The display proper of the 1904 crop began early in September. This display was entirely made
up of fruit contributed by the growers of the Chautauqua and Keuka Lake districts. These two
districts were represented about in proportion to their acreages and products.

The grapes were well wrapped in paper and packed in a new style paper grape basket, furnished
by Mullen Bros. Paper Company, of St. Joseph, Michigan. These baskets were packed in spring
crates, and the grapes, with a very few exceptions, carried in perfect condition.

The grape exhibit was made adjacent to the rest of the New York exhibit. The tables afforded
room for about 2,000 plates. The display was made up largely of Concord, Catawba, Niagara,
Virgennes, Campbell Early and other commercial varieties.

The rarer varieties, however, were not neglected, as will be seen from the list of one hundred
and fifty varieties appearing elsewhere.

PEARS

In October of 1903, fifty-five bushel boxes of pears were placed in cold storage to be used
for the Exposition. Of this number, twenty-five boxes were purchased from David K. Bell, of
Brighton, and the balance came in single bushels from some of the best growers of the State.
The pears, like the apples, were wrapped first in heavy tissue paper and then in oiled paper.

The following is a list of the varieties kept in cold storage: Beurre d'Anjou, Beurre Bosc,
Beurre Clairgeau, Beurre Diel, Angouleme, Columbia, Duchess, Howell, Josephine of Malines,
Kieffer, Lawrence, Mt. Vernon, Rutter and Vergalieu.

On April twenty-fifth, when the boxes were examined and a selection made for the opening day,
the Duchess was found in poorer condition than any of the other varieties. Notwithstanding
this fact, a continuous exhibit of Duchess pears was made until May thirtieth. All the other
varieties were in prime condition, and were displayed in lots of fifty plates until May twenty-sixth,
when one grand exhibit was made, consisting of four hundred plates of fifteen varieties. This
display continued in good condition until the sixteenth of June, in spite of the extreme hot
weather at that time, the Anjou, Angouleme, Bosc, Clairgeau, Columbia, Howell and Kieffer keeping
extremely well until that date.

The display in the fall of 1904 attracted a great deal of attention, not alone from visitors,
but also from the superintendents of horticulture from the other States and from fruit growers
in general. On September nineteenth, one hundred and forty-two varieties were exhibited from
Ellwanger & Barry, of Rochester; on September twenty-first, twenty varieties were exhibited
from David K. Bell, of Brighton, in addition to the general display from almost every section
of the State, making an exhibit of pears never before equaled.

A complete list of the one hundred and fifty-two varieties of pears exhibited will be found
following the list of exhibitors.

PLUMS

As the result of a bountiful plum crop, the display of this luscious and popular fruit was
unusually large and fine. The first shipment, consisting of Early Red June, was received from
F. E. Dawley, of Fayetteville, on August fifth, and from that time until September twenty-sixth,
additions were made almost daily. One hundred and twenty-eight varieties, arrayed on hundreds
of plates, and occupying nearly a third of the New York space, compelled the attention and
admiration of every passer-by. And indeed, it was an attractive sight, from the stand-point
of color alone, comprising, as it did, nearly every shade of green, yellow, purple, blue, orange
and red.

The varieties attracting the most attention were Abundance, Arch Duke, Burbank, Coe's Golden
Drop, Grand Duke, Quackenboss and St. Lawrence. The display of Burbank was the largest and
finest ever shown, the best two lots coming from Fred H. Teats, of Williamson, and T. H. King,
of Trumansburg.

Splendid collections were also received from F. E. Dawley, of Fayetteville, consisting of eleven
varieties; S. D. Willard, of Geneva, twenty-three varieties; New York Agricultural Experiment
Station, at Geneva, one hundred and five varieties.

A total of one hundred and twenty-eight varieties were exhibited; all of the varieties are
listed following the list of exhibitors.

CHERRIES

Thirty-one varieties of cherries were exhibited, the largest exhibit coming from the New York
Agricultural Experiment Station. No other State excelled in number of varieties.

See the list following the list of exhibitors.

PEACHES

New York's peach crop was not up to the usual standard, being more or less infected with rust
and lacking in color. It was also found to be a difficult matter to get shipments to St. Louis
in good condition.

There were liberal quantities of such varieties as were shown, a list of which appears following
the list of exhibitors.

QUINCES

The crop of 1904 was unusually small and inferior in quality. Nevertheless a fairly good exhibit
was made.

The varieties shown appear following the list of exhibitors.

CURRANTS

It was impossible to make a general display of small fruits, owing to the distance from New
York to St. Louis. Four varieties of currants were shown, however, the Perfection Currant,
from C. G. Hooker, of Rochester, excelling in size, quality and flavor any currant exhibited.

A list of varieties appears following the list of exhibitors.

GOOSEBERRIES

The gooseberry crop was a total failure in New York, and only one small exhibit was made of
the Downing.

STRAWBERRIES

It was the intention to make a large exhibit of strawberries, and arrangements were partially
made with Mr. L. J. Farmer, of Pulaski, to collect this exhibit, but owing to the very poor
condition of shipments received from Illinois, Missouri and other nearby States, the plan was
abandoned, as it was feared that the berries would be spoiled in transit. One exhibit, however,
was made. This was the Ryckman strawberry and came from G. E. Ryckman, of Brocton. Owing to
extreme care in packing, this small exhibit came in fairly good condition, and excited much
comment on account of its size, color, fine flavor and prolific production.

PLANTS AND FLOWERS

The exhibit of plants and flowers was, for the most part, made out of doors in beds, which
were attractively laid out in the grounds surrounding the Horticulture and Agriculture buildings.
The extent of the grounds afforded opportunity for the massing of the different varieties of
hardy plants, such as roses, peonies, hydrangeas, and also of the newer varieties of cannas
and geraniums. In the conservatory adjoining the Horticulture building proper were exhibited
fine collections of ferns and a large display of gladiolas, and also one of peonies.

SOME GRATIFYING COMPARISONS

The following statistics from the United States census of 1903 may be of interest:

New York leads in the production of fruit, exclusive of subtropical fruits. Twelve and one-tenth
per cent of the fruit production of the United States is in New York.

Orchard fruit of 1903 was valued at            $10,542,272 Grapes of 1903 were valued at  
2,763,711 Small fruits of 1903 were valued at              2,538,363

The following table will give an idea of the extensive cultivation of
small fruits:
                                      Acres Product-quarts

Raspberries                          12,376     17,575,530 Strawberries                   
7,311     13,846,860 Currants                              2,594      4,584,080 Blackberries
2,060      3,167,090 Other berries                           710        862,107

                            Number of vines Product-pounds

Grapes                           29,636,316    247,689,056

From the following a comparison may be drawn between the number of trees and apple product
of the two leading apple states:

                            Number of trees Product-bushels

New York                         15,054,832     24,111,257 Missouri                       
20,040,399      6,496,436

The average number of apple trees per farm in the United States was 74.5; the same for New
York was 86.2. The average production in bushels per farm in the United States was 64.8; the
same for New York was 138.1.

A considerable proportion of the trees in Missouri, quoted above, are young trees, and the
relative products will soon show far different results unless New York fruit growers awake
to the situation. In all of the western fruit growing states the annual planting of young trees
is rapidly increasing, a precaution which our fruit growers are not taking to any great extent.
Moreover, the lack of interest on the part of New York growers in expositions and the opportunity
there afforded for advertising the superiority of New York products is a subject for comment.
It is in marked contrast to the interest and progressive spirit of the growers in the western
states who never lose such an opportunity, and are gradually working into the front ranks of
fruit production. In many of the western states no public funds nor machinery were provided
for a horticultural exhibit at St. Louis, but very creditable exhibits were prepared, the entire
expense of the same being borne by fruit growers' associations. In marked contrast is a rather
unfortunate precedent heretofore adopted in the State of New York, and of necessity followed
at St. Louis, viz.: That the State, in order to obtain a creditable exhibit, must pay a fancy
price for fruit for exhibition purposes and allow the seller to receive the award upon fruit
which is no longer his own property.

THE STAFF

In addition to the superintendent the staff connected with the department consisted of James
G. Patterson, of Sheridan, assistant superintendent; John W. Coughtry, of New Scotland, and
Sherman T. Lewis, of Johnsonburg, assistants in charge of fruit exhibit; A. M. Loomis, of Fredonia,
assistant in charge of viticulture, and Miss Bessie J. Hutchinson, of Rochester, stenographer.
One and all they served the Commission and the State faithfully and efficiently.

AWARDS

The State received a total of 295 awards, divided as follows: A grand prize for installation,
a grand prize for the collective State exhibit of fruit, 19 gold medals, 142 silver medals
and 132 bronze medals. Owing to the rules and regulations governing the system of awards, however,
prizes were not so freely distributed as at the World's Fair at Chicago, or the Pan American
Exposition at Buffalo. Heretofore it has always been the custom to allow the exhibitor a medal
for a collection of apples, another for a collection of pears, another for plums, etc., while
at St. Louis only one award was allowed an exhibitor for his entire collective exhibit. The
jury in the Department of Horticulture was on duty throughout the Exposition period, and as
soon as an exhibit was placed upon the tables it was promptly passed upon by the jury, due
application having been made.

Catalogue of Exhibitors in the Department of Horticulture, with the Award, if Any, Received by Each

GROUP ONE HUNDRED SEVEN

Pomology

F. M. Adams, Fredonia. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Pocklington, Martha, Concord
Frank Abbott, Pulteney. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Concord, Eumelan, Diana, Delaware
George Aldrich, Sheridan. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Niagara, Pocklington
B. C. Allen, Holley. Silver medal
  Apples
    Roxbury, Russet, Snow
James Allen, Nliddleport. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Greening, Twenty Ounce, King
M. L. Allen, Seneca Falls. Silver medal
  Apples
    Gilliflower, Northern Spy
Clark Allis, Medina
  Apples
    Stump
G. W. Anderson, South Onondaga. Silver medal
  Apples
    Twenty Ounce, King, Tallman Sweet, Peck's Pleasant, Northern Spy,
      Red Canada
W. W. Anderson, Gasport. Silver medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy, Greening, Snow
Marcus Ansley, Geneva. Bronze medal
  Pears
    Kieffer, Duchesse, Beurre Bosc
Lewis Archer, Hilton. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Cooper's Market, Roxbury Russet
Charles E. Artman, Le Roy. Bronze medal
  Apples
    King
George Bacon, Scriba. Bronze medal
  Apples
  Baldwin
Charles N. Baker, Selkirk. Silver medal
  Apples
    Peck's Pleasant, Northern Spy, Langford Seedling, Black Twig,
    Bagdanoff, Baldwin, Salome, Red Russet, Wagener, Scott's Winter,
    Winter Sweet, Newtown Pippin, Sutton Beauty, Tallman Sweet, Phoenix,
    Gilliflower, Golden Russet, Roxbury Russet, Willow Twig, Vandervere,
    McIntosh, Pound Sweet, Mother, Wolf River, Milding, Yellow
    Belleflower, Esopus Spitzenberg
C. M. Bailey, Pulteney. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Catawba
Fred Baright, Van Wagoner. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Red Belleflower, Stark
R. A. Barnes, Lockport. Silver medal
  Pears
    Bartlett
W. A. Bassett, Farmer. Bronze medal
  Apples
    King, Peck's Pleasant, Hendrick Sweet
R. Bassett, Hilton. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin
  Peaches
    Late Crawford
F. M. Beattie, Brighton. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy
C. Bechstedt, Oswego. Silver medal
  Apples
    Stump, Garden Royal, Unknown
David K. Bell, West Brighton. Silver medal
  Apples
    Mother
  Quinces
    Rhea's Mammoth
  Pears
    Josephine, Diel, Columbia, Clairgeau, Anjou, Winter Nellis,
    Bartlett, Superfin, Bose, Kieffer, Duchesse, Kinsessing, Louise
    Bonne, Pitmaston, Doyenne Boussock, Lawrence, Bergamot, Easter,
    Seckel, White Doyenne, Fred Clapp, Sheldon
L. J. Bellis, Crosby. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Diana, Iona
E. S. Bender, New Scotland. Silver medal
  Apples
    Pewaukee, Rambo, Spitzenberg, Greening, Northern Spy,
    Lady Sweet, Pomme Grise, Roxbury, Russet
W. T. Benjamin, Fredonia. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Martha, Worden, Delaware
David W. Bennett, New Salem. Silver medal
  Apples
    Snow, Northern Spy, Baldwin, Rome Beauty
James Berryman, Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Salem, Concord, Isabella, Niagara, Moore's Diamond,
      Pocklington
William Bradley, Pavilion. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Babbett, Cooper's Market, Northern Spy
L. G. Brainard, Ellington. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Gilliflower
E. T. Brizzee, Canandaigua. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Bailey Sweet, Belleflower
W. H. Brower, Arlington. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Crow Egg, Lawver, Gilliflower, Newtown Pippin, Baldwin
W. D. Brown, Pulteney. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Delaware, Concord, Niagara, Catawba
E. J. Brwen, Albion. Silver medal
  Apples
    King, Canada Red, Baldwin, Roxbury Russet, Northern Spy
A. B. Boyd, Pulteney. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Delaware, Concord, Worden, Ives' Seedling, Niagara, Brighton
J. V. Boyd, Pulteney
  Grapes
    Catawba, Concord
John W. Bullock, Brocton. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord
F. D. Burger, Pulteney
  Grapes
    Catawba, Iona, Isabella
Mrs. Hiram Burgess, Newark. Bronze medal
  Apples
    White Graft, Smokehouse
F. W. Campbell, Esopus. Silver medal
  Apples
    Greening
Thomas Cant, Clarksville. Silver medal
  Apples
    Spitzenberg, Fall Pippin, McIntosh
  Pears
    Lawrence, Sheldon, Anjou, Howell
O. J. Chamberlain, Brocton. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Niagara
Austin L. Champion, Schenectady. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Spitzenberg, Baldwin, Northern Spy, Red Winter Pippin
E. W. Chapman, Gasport. Silver medal
  Apples
    Snow, Nonesuch, Northern Spy
William Chillson, Fairdale. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Pound Sweet
M. A. Christman, Pavilion. Silver medal
  Apples
    Seek-no-Further
Fred W. Clark, Pavilion. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy, Spitzenberg
J. E. Cline, Massena. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Niagara
F. B. Clothier, Silver Creek. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord
I. D. Cook & Son. South Byron
  Apples
    Peck's Pleasant, Tallman Sweet, Corey Pippin, Seek-no-Further
F. H. Cookingham, Cherry Creek
  Apples
    McIntosh, Maiden Blush, Mann
J. B. Collamer & Sons, Hilton. Silver medal
  Apples
    Alexander, Sweet Bough, Wealthy, Baldwin
  Plums
    Burbank
E. J. Cole, Sheridan. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Delaware, Salem, Concord, Niagara, Jessica
James E. Cole, Fulton
  Apples
    Rhode Island Greening
Ed. Colvin, Fredonia. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Niagara, Worden, Campbell's Early
E. R. Concklin, Pomona. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Sutton Beauty, Baldwin, Pomeroy, Wagener
J. J. Conroy, Hilton. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Nonesuch
J. B. Corkhill, Seneca Falls. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Gilliflower, Canada Red, Lady
H. A. Cosman, Hilton. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Canada Red, Ben Davis, Snow
Charles Covell, Lockport. Silver medal
  Apples
    King
F. Cozzens, Appleton. Silver medal
  Apples.
    Rhode island Greening, Tallman Sweet
Craig Colony, Sonyea. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Surprise, Sweet Henry, Pearmain, Dakota Sweet, Rhode
    Island Greening, Tallman Sweet, Baldwin, Gilliflower,
    Northern Spy, Bell Bond, Sweet Russet, Pound Sweet
A. B. Cranston, Sheridan. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Delaware, Worden
S. S. Crissey, Fredonia. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Worden, Hartford, Green Mountain, Empire State, Wyoming
    Red, Ives' Black, Iona, Martha, Telegraph, Moore's
    Diamond, Concord, Pocklington
Fred Crosby, Crosby. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Empire State, Moore's Diamond, Catawba, Martha, Duchesse,
    Jefferson, Diana, Concord
John W. Crosier, Hall's Corners. Silver medal
  Apples
    Pearmain, Canada Red, Baldwin
A. S. Cross, Pulteney. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord
Cross & Uhl, Arlington. Silver medal
  Apples
    King, Snow, Northern Spy
Crossgrove Bros., Ripley. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Niagara
Robert B. Crowell, Walkill. Silver medal
  Apples
    Russet Greening, Rambo, Pewaukee, Fallawater, Newtown
    Pippin, Snow, Grimes' Golden, Red Canada, Lady Sweet
Culver Bros., Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Delaware, Catawba, Concord, Niagara, Moore's Diamond,
    Pocklington
O. P. Curtis, Hilton. Bronze medal
  Pears
    Clapp's Favorite
  Plums
    Burbank
James Curtis & Son, Hilton. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Greening, King, Snow, Holland Pippin, Baldwin
  Pears
    Duchesse
F. E. Dawley, Fayetteville. Silver medal
  Apples
    Sweet Bough, Early Harvest, Red Astrachan, Yellow Transparent,
    Primate, Strawberry, Summer Pippin, Hawley,
    Grimes' Golden, Wine, Bismarck, English Streak, Red
    Romanite
  Cherries
    Dawley
  Pears
    Clapp's Favorite, Seckel, Japanese
  Plums
    Seedling Japanese, Abundance, Primate, Red June, Burbank,
    Japanese Wineberry, Red Negate, Shropshire Damson,
    Tragedy Prune, Cooper, Lombard
Day Bros., Dunkirk. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Ives, Diana, Concord, Martha, Marion
David Dean, Oswego
  Apples
    Northern Spy
H. Dean, Aurora. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord
John DeWitt, Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Catawba
George Dorman, Fredonia. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Niagara
A. C. Doty, Sheridan. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Brighton, Pocklington, Niagara, Delaware
C. E. Drake, Stanley. Silver medal
  Apples
    Smokehouse, Swaar, Winter Pippin, King, Bell Bond,
    Ontario
Charles W. Driggs, Elba. Silver medal
  Apples
    Roxbury Russet, Baldwin, Northern Spy
R. C. Dunkelberger, Gasport. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Roxbury Russet, Mann, Ben Davis, Cranberry
    Pippin
David M. Dunning, Auburn. Gold medal
  Apples
    Alexander, King
  Grapes
    Barbarosa, Muscat Hamburg
  Pears
    Clairgeau
N.J. Durfee, Pavilion. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Snow, Baldwin, Northern Spy, Wagener
Sylvester Edeck, Olcott. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Cranberry Pippin
  Pears
    Kieffer
L.L. Edmunds, Holley. Silver medal
  Apples
    Lady Sweet, Spitzenberg, Nonesuch, Pound Sweet, Gilliflower,
    Martin
John Elliott, Morton. Silver medal
  Apples
    Nonesuch, Holland Pippin
Ellwanger & Barry, Rochester. Gold medal
  Apples
    Arabskoe, Alexander, Albion, Amasias, Aucuba-leaved Reinette,
    Ballarat Seedling, Bismarck, Black Detroit, Black Gilliflower,
    Belle de Boskopp, Baldwin, Bohanan, Blanche de Bournay,
    Blanche d'Espagne, Beauty of Kent, Ben Davis, Belle
    d'Angers, Brittle Sweet, Brownlee's Russet, Barry, Buckingham,
    Christiana, Cox's Pomona, Court Penduplat, Coe's Scarlet
    Perfume, Canada Reinette, Danford, Duke of Devonshire, Dr.
    Oppel's French Pippin, Dumclow's Seedling, Downing's Paragon,
    English Royal Russet, Evening Party, Equimetely, Excelsior,
    Esopus Spitzenberg, Fall Pippin, Flower of Kent, Fall
    Orange, Fameuse, Fameuse Sucre, Glidden No. 3, Golden
    Sweet, Gelber Richard, Grosse Bohnapfel, Golden Russet,
    Hurlbut, Hester, Hartford Sweet, Hubbardston Nonesuch,
    Hennepin, Idaho, Julia, Jackson, Johnson, Jonathan, Josephine
    Kreuter, Keswick Codlin, King of Pippins, Krouzex,
    Kelsey, Kikitia, Klaproth, Knox Russet, Lord Suffieid, Lindenwald,
    London Pippin, Lowell, Lady Hennicker, Liberty,
    Lehigh, Long Stem, Magneta, Menagere, Minister, Mother,
    Monmouth Pippin, McLellan, Marston's Red Winter, Milding,
    Neversink, Nickajack, Nicolayer, Norton's Melon, Northern Spy,
    Oustin's Pippin, Peter No. 12, Plumb's Cider, Pryor's
    Red, Pickman, Pomme Grise, Pigeon de Schibler, Reinette
    Monstrouse, Rhode Island Greening, Reinette Jaune Hative,
    Reinette Bretagne, Riviere, Reinette gris de Versailles, Ribston
    Pippin, Red Warrior, Red Canada, Roxbury Russet, Red
    Beitingheimer, Sheppard's Perfection, Signe Tilisu, Schackleford,
    Smokehouse, Swaar, Sol Edwards, Stott's Seedling, Seneca
    Sweet, Summer Hagloe, Sweet Pearmain, Stump, Stark, Sutton
    Beauty, Spaeth's Sameling, Soulard, Transparent de Croucels,
    Turn-off Lane, Shannon, Twenty Ounce, Virginia Greening,
    Wealthy Wagener, White Pippin, White Robinson, Winter
    Pearmain, Winesap, Washington Strawberry, Wormsley's Pippin,
    York Imperial, Yellow Belleflower
  Pears
    Admiral Cecil, America, Angelique le Clerc, Angouleme,
    Angouleme Bronzee, Anjou, Ansault, Antoine Lormier, Auguste
    Royer, Bergamot Buffo, Bergamot Heitrich, Bergamot
    Royal d'Hiver, Beurre Alex Lucas, Beurre d'Aremburg,
    Beurre Benoist Noveaux, Beurre Capiaumont, Beurre Diel,
    Beurre Dumont, Beurre gris d'Hiver, Beurre Mauxion, Beurre
    Moire, Bezi de la Motte, Black Worcester, Bonchretian Vermont,
    Boussock, Brockworth Park, B. S. Fox, Buffam, Cabot,
    Canandaigua, Catherine Gardette, Catinka, Chapman, Church,
    Clairgeau, Columbia, Col. Wilder, Comice, Comte de Lamy,
    Comte de Paris, Conseiller de la Cour, Delices d'Huy, Delices
    de Mons, DeLamartine, Desiree Cornelis, Dix, Dorset, Dow,
    Doyenne d'Alencon, Doyenne Boussock, Doyenne Dillon,
    Doyenne Gray, Doyenne Jamain, Doyenne Robin, Doyenne
    Sieulle, Dr. Nellis, Duchesse de Bordeaux, Duchesse Precoce,
    Duhamel du Monceau, Eastern Belle, Easter Beurre, Edmunds,
    Emile d'Heyst, Figue d'Alencon, Figue de Naples,
    Fred Clapp, Gansel's Bergamot, Gansel's Seckel, Hardy, Homewood,
    Hoosic, Island, Jackson, Jalousie de Fontenay, Jones,
    Kieffer, Kingsessing, Kirtland, Knight's Seedling, Lady Clapp,
    La France, Langalier, Lawrence, Le Comte, Lodge, Louise
    Bonne de Jersey, Loveaux, Mace, Magnate, Miller, Minister,*
    Dr. Lucius, Mount Vernon, Mme. Blanche Sannier, Mme.
    Treyve, Napoleon, Oswego Beurre, Pardee's Seedling, Passe
    Crasanne, Pater Noster, Paul Ambre, P. Barry, Pierre Corneille,
    Pitmaston Duchesse, Poire Louise, Pound, President
    Gilbert, Prince Consort, Prince's St. Germain, Rapalje's Seedling,
    Raymond de Montlaux, Reeder, Refreshing, Rousselet
    Bivort, Sarah, Seckel, Secretaire Rodin, Serrurier, Sheldon,
    Soulard Bergamot, Souv. d'Esper, Souv. de Lens, Souv. de la
    Marcau Trou, Souv. de la Reine des Belges, Souv. Sannier
    Pere St. Andre, Sterling, Superfin, Tyson, Urbaniste, Van
    Buren, Vergalieu No. 4, Washington, White Doyenne, Winter
    Nelis
B. C. Fairchild, Willsboro. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy, Fallawater, Wagener
William H. Falls, Gasport. Silver medal
  Apples
    King, Nonesuch, Lawyer, Baldwin, Tallman Sweet, Golden
    Russet, Roxbury Russet
E. H. Fay, Portland. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Stark Star
A. A. Fay, Brocton. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Niagara, Delaware
Finch & Horrocks, Bluff Point. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Niagara, Moore's Diamond
W. R. Finch & Son, Rushville. Silver medal
  Apples
    Fallawater, Swaar, Spitzenberg
Foster & Griffith, Fredonia. Silver medal
  Apples
    Fall Pippin, Abundance, Bradshaw, Red Beitengheimer,
    Alexander, Black Detroit, Northern Spy, King, Ox, Maiden
    Blush, St. Lawrence, Plunker Sweet, Fallawater, Orange
    Pippin, Twenty Ounce, Duchess of Oldenburg
  Grapes
    Iona Red Rare, Vergennes, Delaware, Agawam, Jessica
    White, Lucile, Lindley Rogers No. 9, Moyer Red
B. W. Frazer, Fredonia. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Catawba
Howard S. Fullager, Penn Yan. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy, Greening, Wagener
J. H. Gamby, Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord
John B. Garbutt, Middleport. Silver medal
  Apples
    Duchess of Oldenburg, Wealthy
J. V. Gaskell, Gasport. Silver medal.
  Apples
    Northern Spy, Pound Sweet, King
Geneva Experiment Station, Geneva. Gold medal
  Apples
    Albion, Alexander, Amasias, Aporte Orientale, August,
    Benoni, Bismarck, Bohana, Breskorka, Canada Baldwin,
    Canada Reinette, Caroline Red June, Charlock Reinette,
    Christiana, Coon Red, Count Orloff, Crott's, Deacon
    Jones, Dickinson, Doctor, Dudley Winter, Duncan, Edwards,
    Elgin Pippin, Enormous, Etowah, Ewalt, Excelsior,
    Fall Pippin, Ferdinand, Fishkill, Gideon, Gideon Sweet, Golden
    Medal, Golden Russet, Grandmother, Grand Duke Constantine,
    Great Mogul, Groscoe Slenka Greenle, Grundy, Hartford
    Rose, Haskell Sweet, Haywood, Herefordshire Beefing, Holland,
    Iowa Beauty, Jacob Sweet, Jones' Seedling, Jonathan
    Buler, Judson, Juicy Krimtartar, July Cluster, Keswick, Kirkland,
    Landsbergere Reinette, Lawver, Manchester, Magog Red
    Streak, McIntosh, McMahon, Milding, Milon, Milligan, Millott,
    Monmouth, Monroe, Moon, Moore Sweet, Mother, Mountain
    Sweet, Moyer's Bride, Munson, Nelson, Newman's Seedling,
    Northwestern Greening, Ohio Pippin, Olive, Paragon, Paul's
    Imperial Crab, Peach, Pear, Persian Bogdanoff, Piper, Pride
    of Texas, Reinette Coux, Rhodes Orange, Rolfe, Roxbury
    Russet, Salome, Scott's Winter, Skelton, Sklanka Bog, Small's
    Admirable, Standard, Stark, Stayman's Winesap, Striped Winter,
    Stuart Golden, Sutton Beauty, Swaar, Swinku, Thompson,
    Titus Pippin, Tobias, Tobias Black, Tobias Pippin, Tom Putt,
    Van Hoy, Wabash Red Winter, Wallace Howard, Washington
    Royal, Washington Strawberry, Watwood, Western Beauty,
    White Zurdell, Williams Favorite, Winter Bananna, Winter
    Golden, York Imperial
  Cherries
    Hoke, Ida, May Duke, King's Amarelle, Esel Kirche, Elton,
    Double Nattie, Dyehouse, Orel No. 23, Gov. Wood, Black
    Tartarian, Mercer, Rockport Bigarreau, Knight's Early Red,
    Early Purple Guigne, Large Montmorency, Abesse de Pigmes,
    Transcendant, Downer's Late, Napoleon Yellow Spanish,
    Windsor, Bay State, Mezel, Olivet, Rapp, Luelling, Reine
    Hortense, Sparhawk's Honey, Montmorency
  Grapes
    Hicks, Moyer, Canandaigua, Telegraph, Champion, Early
    Victor, Riehl No. 22, McPike, Elvibach, Marion, Niagara, Isabella
    Seedling, Rupert, Arminia, Corby, Hartford, Livingston,
    Riehl No. 10, Janesville, August Giant, Eumelan, Merrimack,
    Prentiss, Dracut Amber, Manito, Mary Favorite, Greene,
    Horner No. 1, Diamond, Lucile, Mary Washington, Adirondack,
    Browne, Worden, Colerain, Presley, Concord, Moore's
    Early, Riehl No. 21, Cayuga, St. Louis, Rockwood, Jewell,
    Campbell, Emerald, Waupanuka, Butler No. 1, R. W. Munson,
    Essex, Barry, Pulaski, Thompson No. 7, Paragon, Wyoming
    Red, Nectar, Herbert, Gold Coin, Perfection, Creveling,
    Rebecca, Campbell's Early, Caywood No. 50, Brighton,
    Winchell, Dr. Hexamer, Delaware, Faith, Peabody, Requa,
    Etta, Chautauqua, Jessica, Lutie, Poughkeepsie, Olita, Berckman,
    America, Golden Grain, Osage, Thompson No. 5, Columbian
    Imperial, Northern Muscatine, Rogers No. 13, Red Eagle,
    Agawam, Wilder, Hercules, Little Blue, Maxatawney, Kensington,
    Helen Keller, Massasoit, Gold Dust, Martha, Station
    No. 797
  Plums
    Yosebe, Engre, Japanese Seedling, Shiro, Oullin Golden,
    Prunus Simoni, Climax, Hale, King of Damson, Berger,
    Duane's Purple, Coe's Golden Drop, Monarch, Newman, Chabot,
    Grand Duke, White Nicholas, Saunders, Burbank, Washington,
    Mariana, De Caradenec, St. Lawrence, Field, Shipper,
    Hector, Early Orange, World Beater, Normand, Poole's Pride,
    Robe de Sargent, Harriet, Abundance, Bartlett, Merunka,
    Combination, Pacific, Bailey, Imperial Gage, Yellow, Baray's Green
    Gage, White Kelsey, Paragon, Maru, Orient, Mogul, Arch
    Duke, Royal Hative, Pottawatamie, Gold, Niagara, Hiederman
    Sand Cherry, Victoria, Autumn Comport, Baker, Pond's Seedling,
    Miles, Palatine, America, October Purple, French Prune,
    Quackenboss, King of Damson, Transparent, Spalding, Late
    Black Orleans, Shropshire, Damson, Ungarrish Prune, Wickson,
    Sweet Botan, Coe's Purple Drop, Reine Claude, Grant
    Prune, Dame Aubert, Pringle Blue, Freestone Damson,
    Pringle Purple, Clingstein, Hudson River Purple Egg, Wild
    Goose, G. No. 44, Jones, McLaughlin, Eagle, Yeddo, Goliath,
    Jefferson, Gold Drop, Belgian Purple, Diamond, Tennant,
    Tragedy Prune, Mikado, Kirk, Yellow Egg, Cabot, Uchi Beni,
    Union Purple, Geuthrie Late, Saratoga, Monroe
George Geringer, Childs. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Northern Spy
John Gibson, Catawba. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Niagara
Edwin S. Gifford, Lockport. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Greening
John D. Gilligan, Crown Point. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy, Bethel
George A. Gilson, Sheridan. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Agawam, Concord, Martha, Worden
P. Gleavey, Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Moore's Diamond, Niagara
E. J. Gleason, Keuka. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Catawba
E. P. Gould, Rochester. Bronze medal
  Pears
    Beurre Clairgeau
J. H. Giffin, Catawba. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Isabella
S. S. Grandin, Westfield. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Niagara
C. B. Gray, Albion. Silver medal
  Apples
    Golden Russet, Hubbardston Nonesuch, King
E. A. Guest, Fredonia. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Cottage, Niagara, Vergennes, White Chautauqua
J. A. Hall, Catawba. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Alvira, Catawba, Concord, Delaware, Diana, Dutchess, Isabella,
    Pocklington
M. H. Hamilton, Westfield. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord
E. E. Hamlet, Sheridan. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Delaware, Moore's Early, Niagara, Worden
James H. Hanlon, Linwood. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Duchess of Oldenburg, King, Red Astrachan,
    Northern Spy
  Plums
    White Japan, Burbank
W. C. Harden. Stanton Hill. Silver medal
  Apples
    Pomeroy, Sutton Beauty
F. P. Hardenburg, Brocton. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord
E. T. Hart, Fredonia. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Clinton, Isabella
F. P. Hazelton, Le Roy. Silver medal
  Apples
    Alexander, Black Gilliflower, Cooper's Market, Lady, Swaar,
    St. Lawrence
  Pears
    Beurre Bosc
J. A. Hepworth, Marlboro. Silver medal
  Apples
    Domine, Lady Sweet, Snow
  Currants
    Filler
  Pears
    Beurre Bosc, Clairgeau, Duchesse
Grant G. Hitchings, South Onondaga. Silver medal
  Apples
    Pewaukee, Rhode Island Greening, Wealthy, Jonathan,
    Seek-no-Further, Red Canada, Spitzenberg, Fallawater,
    Northern Spy, Romanite, Gilliflower, Cranberry Pippin,
    Ben Davis, Walbridge, Hubbardston Nonesuch, Pound
    Sweet
Elton B. Holden, Hilton. Silver medal
  Apples
    Cooper's Market, Cranberry Pippin, York Pippin
C. G. Hooker, Rochester. Gold medal
  Currants
    Perfection
E. R. Hopkins, Sheridan. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Lindley, Concord
S. O. Hubbard, Pavilion. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy, Snow
J. A. Hulbert, South Onondaga. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Douse
T. S. Hubbard Nursery Co., Fredonia. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Eaton, Moore's Diamond, Wyoming Red, Empire State,
    Cynthiana, Brilliant, Woodruff Red, Early Daisy, Rommel,
    Berckman Red, Brighton, Dracut Amber, Gaertner, Moyer,
    Niagara, Goethe, Campbell's Early, Telegraph, Lutie Red,
    Janesville, Early Ohio, White Diamond, Etta, Concord,
    Early Victor, Cottage, Jessica, Norton, Green Mountain,
    Lucile, Moore's Reissling, Delaware
Elias B. Hutchinson, Pavilion. Silver medal
  Apples
    Golden Russet, Peck's Pleasant, Phoenix
J. S. Hutt, Cobleskill. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Hook
J. Corwin Jacks, Batavia. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Flower of Genesee
Ira S. Jarvis, Hartwick Seminary. Bronze medal
  Apples
    English Russet, Ross, Nonpareil
George S. Josselyn, Fredonia. Gold medal
  Grapes
    Campbell's Early, Eaton, Barry, Pocklington, Dracut Amber,
    Lindley, Massasoit, Diana, Victoria, Herbert, Montefiore,
    Amenia, Wyoming Red, Wilder, Moyer, Catawba, Telegraph,
    Concord, Esther, Martha, Green Mountain, Lucile,
    Worden, Brighton, Early Victor, Vergennes, Salem,
    Woodruff Red, Alice, Cottage, Noah, Ulster Prolific, Agawam,
    Etta, Clinton, Goethe, Niagara, Delaware, Moore's
    Diamond, Janesville, Moore's Early, Jefferson
F. I. Judd, Batavia. Silver medal
  Apples
    Golden Russet, Greening, Roxbury Russet, Northern Spy
Alfred Jorgensen, Bluff Point. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Niagara
M. H. Kelly, Wyoming. Silver medal
  Apples
    Roxbury Russet
Herman L. Kent, Westfield. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Concord, Isabella, Kent's Favorite
John G. Kettle, Schodack Landing. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Blush Pippin, Bristol, Esopus Spitzenberg, Greening,
    Mann, Pomeroy Sweet, Stark
John C. Ketchum, Schenectady. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, N ewtown Pippin, Northern Spy, Spitzenberg, Vandevere
George M. Kinner, Fredonia. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Salem, North Carolina, Worden, Niagara, Perkins,
    Rogers No. 15, Massasoit, Catawba, Delaware, Rogers No.
    9, Rogers No. 8 Black, Rogers No. 33 Black, Martha
P. W. King, Athens. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Northern Spy, Roxbury Russet, Spitzenberg
T. H. King, Trumansburg. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Niagara
Judson N. Knapp, Syracuse. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Knapp's Prolific, Pound Sweet
E. Ben Knight, Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord
Lake View Nursery Co., Sheridan. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Eaton, Agawam, Lindley, Clinton
E. W. Lamont, Cobleskill. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Ben Davis, Greening, Hannah Kazoot, Kirkland
    Pippin, Lady, Spitzenberg
A. R. Lathrop, Brocton. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord
Fred B. Leibring, Gasport. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Greening, King
C. N. Leonard, Penfield. Silver medal
  Apples
    Cooper's Market, Golden Russet, Greening, Northern Spy,
    Phoenix
Henry D. Lewis, Annandale. Silver medal
  Apples
    Newtown Pippin
H. J. Lewis, Ripley. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Niagara
S. T. Lewis, Johnsonburg. Bronze medal
  Plums
    Burbank, Mary, Delaware, Bradshaw, Giant Prune, Imperial
    Gage, juicy, Jefferson, General Hand, Apple, Satsuma,
    Osto Smomo, Pearl, Gueii
P. R. Loder, Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Vergennes
C. W. Mackey, Coxsackie. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Pomeroy, Snow, Spitzenberg
H. Manchester, Lockport. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Cranberry Pippin, Northern Spy, King
Willis T. Mann, Barker. Silver medal
  Apples
    Boiken, Cranberry Pippin, Mann, Sutton Beauty
Arlington Mapes, Stanley. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Crown.
U. P. Markham, Fredonia
  Grapes
    Delaware
I. H. Marvin, Albion. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Greening, Hubbardston Nonesuch, King
H. R. Mason, Ripley. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord
O. C. Mather, Albion. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Lady
A. Ross Matheson, Pomona. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Fallawater
A. G. Meiklejohn, Putnam Station. Silver medal
  Apples
    Ben Davis, Bethel, Blue Pearmain, Greening, McIntosh Red,
    Northern Spy, Tallman Sweet, Snow
W. D. Merrick, Albion
  Pears
    Anjou, Clairgeau, Duchesse, Howell
W. W. Metcalf, Castile. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Canada Red, Greening, Northern Spy
H. R. McNair, Dansville. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Grimes' Golden, Mann, McIntosh, Peck's Pleasant,
    Seekno-Further, Wagener, Walbridge
W. S. Millard, Joshua. Silver medal
  Apples
    Rhode Island Greening
Fred Miller, Penn Yan. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Gilliflower, Greening, King, Northern Spy, Smokehouse,
    Spitzenberg, Tallman Sweet
George Miller, Naples. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Salem, Vergennes
Robert Miller, Sheridan. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Agawam, Brighton, Catawba, Concord, Delaware, Diana,
    Martha, Moore's Diamond, Pocklington
C. D. Mills, Wellsville. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Wolf River
C. D. Miner, Lima. Silver medal
  Apples
    Duchess of Oldenburg, King, Red Astrachan, Sweet Bough
A. A. Mitchell, Palmyra. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Canada Reinette, Domine, Vandevere
W. C. Moore, Bluff Point. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Niagara
W. Seward Mudge, Gasport. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Greening, Northern Spy
G. E. & E. H. Munt, Le Roy. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Rambo
Mrs. I. Neff, Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Delaware, Brighton, Agawam, Moore's Diamond
William Newton, Henrietta. Bronze medal
  Pears
    Anjou, Lawrence
New York State. Collective exhibit. Grand prize
  Apples
    424 varieties
  Cherries
    31 varieties
  Currants
    4 varieties
  Gooseberries
    1 variety
  Grapes
    150 varieties
  Peaches
    14 varieties
  Pears
    152 varieties
  Plums
    129 varieties
  Quinces
    8 varieties
  Strawberries
    1 variety
New York Grape Growers' Association. Gold medal
    Grapes
O'Brien & Morse, Sheridan. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Agawam, Moore's Early
H. H. Ostrander, Salt Point. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Canada Red, Snow.
Gottlieb Otto, Gasport. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy
John J. Ovens, Crosby. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Catawba
Levi A. Page, Seneca Castle. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Canada Red, Gilliflower, Roxbury Russet
George D. Parker, Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy
James G. Patterson, Sheridan. Silver medal
  Apples
    Duchess of Oldenburg, Virginia Sweet, Western Beauty
  Plums
    Burbank
J. W. Patterson, Ripley. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord
S. Patterson, Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Delaware, Empire State, Moore's Diamond, Niagara,
    Pocklington
Fayette E. Pease, Lockport. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Jonathan
William B. Pepper, Branchport. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Delaware, Diana, Empire State, Golden Pocklington.
D. Perry, Bluff Point. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Niagara
J. E. Perry, Pulteney. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord
W. R. Perry, Rushville. Bronze medal
  Pears
    Vergalieu
George Pettit, Lyndonville. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Roxbury Russet
Mrs. Laura Pettit, Brocton. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Agawam, Moore's Early
Merton Phelps, Castile. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Belleflower, Blue Pearmain, Peck's Pleasant, Tallman Sweet
    Unknown
M. F. Pierson, Stanley. Silver medal
  Apples
    Boiken, Canada Red, Cooper's Market, Delaware Red, Winter,
    Ewalt, Gano, Kirkland, Lady, Lady Sweet, Rome Beauty,
    Scott's Winter, Sutton Beauty
  Pears
    Columbia, Kieffer
W. H. Pillow, Canandaigua. Silver medal
  Peaches
    Lemon Cling, Late Crawford, Elberta, Champion, Old
    Nixon, Willet
  Pears
    Vermont Beauty, Howell, Clairgeau, Louise Bonne, Pitmaston
    Duchesse
  Plums
    Grand Duke, Frost Damson, Blue Damson, Reine Claude,
    Arch Duke, Stanton, Italian Prune, French Prune
  Quinces
    Orange
E. C. Porter, Sauquoit. Silver medal
  Apples
    Gloria Mundi, Spitzenberg
George T. Powell, Ghent. Silver medal
  Apples
    Fall Pippin, Fall Strawberry, Gravenstein, Hubbardston
    Nonesuch, King, Jonathan, Red Winter Sweet, Roxbury
    Russet, Lady Sweet, Sutton Beauty, Twenty Ounce,
    Transcendant Crab
Jesse A. Putnam, Fredonia. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Cottage, Eaton, Lucile, Pocklington, Telegraph, Worden
H. J. Rater, Ripley. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord
George H. Remer, Penn Yan. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Delaware, Moore's Diamond
George P. Reed, Honeoye. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Vergennes
George S. Reeves, Marion. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Rome Beauty
A. Reisinger, Naples. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Diana, Isabella, Iona
J. F. Riker, Lakeside. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Fall Pippin, King
John T. Roberts, Syracuse
  Apples
    Fall Pippin
William Roberts, Lockport. Silver medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy, Roxbury Russet, Red Astrachan, Sweet Bough,
    Black Detroit, Duchess of Oldenburg, Strawberry, Black
    Gilliflower, Steele's Red, Bottle Greening
  Pears
    Bartlett, Tyson
Lewis Roesch, Fredonia. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Early Daisy, Moore's Diamond
  Plums
    Shipper's Pride, Satsuma
Charles R. Roff, Pulteney. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Niagara, Catawba
W. P. Rogers, Williamson. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Gravenstein, Greening, King, Maiden Blush
William H. Rossiter, Despatch. Silver medal
  Apples
    King
L. A. Rowe, Barnard. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Canada Red, Henry Sweet, Hubbardston Nonesuch
G. E. Ryckman & Son, Brocton. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Lutie, White Delaware, Green Mountain, Agawam, Diana,
    Isabella, Martha, Niagara, Delaware Seedling, Diamond
  Strawberries
    Ryckman
  Lemons
    American Wonder
L. R. Ryckman, Brocton. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Niagara
B. H. Sackett, Keuka. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Empire State, Niagara
J. V. Salisbury, Phelps. Silver medal
  Apples
    Greening, Hendrick Sweet, Swaar, Seek-no-Further, Spitzenberg,
    Tallman Sweet, Fall Pippin, Twenty Ounce, King
Joseph Sanderson, Bluff Point. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Catawba, Diana, Niagara, Salem
R. Sanderson, Pulteney. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Delaware, Moore's Diamond, Niagara, Pocklington, Salem
E. L. Seely, Lafayette. Silver medal
  Apples
    English Stripe, Gilliflower, Prior's Red, Rock, Sweet Greening,
    Spitzenberg
A. F. Selby, Williamson. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Geniton
Guy A. Selmser, Waterloo. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Greening, Northern Spy, Pewaukee, Rambo, Vandevere
J. D. Sherman, Castile. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Black Gilliflower, Fallawater, Swaar, Seek-no-Further,
    Yellow Belleflower
Aaron Shofmyer, Schenectady. Silver medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy, Spice, Spitzenberg
John D. Silsby, Lockport. Bronze medal
  Apples
    King, Greening
I. M. Slingerland, Fayetteville. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Cranberry Pippin, Hendrick Sweet, Seek-no-Further, Slingerland
Henry Smith, Fredonia. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Brighton, Fredonia, Niagara, Woodruff Red
W. I. Smith, Hilton. Gold medal
  Apples
    Alexander, Fall Pippin, Northern Spy, Spitzenberg,
    Seek-no-Further, Twenty Ounce
  Peaches
    Elberta
Smith & Boyce, Holley. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Snow
F. H. Snyder, Ghent. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Alexander, Gravenstein, Wealthy
M. A. Soverhill, Newark. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Lady, Rambo, Willow Twig
S. Stace, Barnard. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Greening, King
C. L. Stearns, Clay. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Belleflower, Northern Spy, Peck's Pleasant, Rome
    Beauty, Sterns, Winter Pippin
Jason L. Stearns, Cardiff. Silver medal
  Apples
    Red Astrachan, Maiden Blush, Strawberry
  Pears
    Clapp's Favorite, Flemish Beauty, Sheldon
Willis C. Streeter, Fulton. Silver medal
  Apples
    Twenty Ounce, Ribston Pippin, Fall Strawberry,Red Astrachan,
    Ox, King, Rhode Island Greening, Northern Spy,
    Sops of Wine, English Russet, Lowell, Mother, Gilliflower,
    Roxbury Russet, Golden Russet, Rock Greening,
    Egg Top, Golden Sweet, Pound Sweet, Spice, Duchess,
    Cranberry Pippin, Belleflower, Sweet Russet, McIntosh,
    Alexander, Monmouth Pippin, Twenty Ounce Pippin, Red
    and Green Sweet, Detroit Red, Culbert, Bitter Sweet,
    Early Strawberry, Porter, Peck's Pleasant, Phoenix, Cabashea,
    Yellow Belleflower, Spitzenberg
John Striker, Pulteney. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Catawba
Tallman & Christy, Ripley. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord
Fred H. Teats, Williamson. Silver medal
  Plums
    Burbank
Delos Tenny, Hilton. Silver medal
  Apples
    Greening, Roxbury Russet
W. S. Teator, Upper Red Hook. Bronze medal.
  Apples
    Baldwin, Fallawater, Greening, Northern Spy, Stark
Clarence Tenny, Hilton. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin
N. Tenny & Sons, Hamlin. Bronze medal
  Currants
    Pres. Wilder, Black Champion
  Gooseberries
    Downing
Mrs. H. J. Thayer, Fredonia. Silver medal
  Apples
    Red Astrachan
A. M. Thayer, Pulteney. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Concord
James K. Thayer, Penn Yan. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Concord, Niagara
Fred Tillman, Catawba. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Delaware, Diana, Niagara
E. B. Tolles, Sheridan. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Agawam, Concord, Martha, Wyoming Red
Howard H. Tozer, Naples. Silver medal
  Apples
    Rambo, Seek-no-Further
  Pears
    Flemish Beauty
S. J. Turk, Fredonia. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Niagara
John S. Van Allen, Selkirk. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Northern Spy
J. P. Van Buren, Stockport. Silver medal
  Apples
    Lady
Robert L. Van Dusen, Newark
  Pears
    Rutter
F. E. Van Eps, Stanley. Silver medal
  Apples
    Primate, Astrachan, Autumn Strawberrv, Yellow Transparent,
    Spitzenberg, Vandevere, Smokehouse, Gravenstein,
    Maiden Blush
W. H. Van Sickles, Union Springs. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Tallow Pippin
W. H. Van Vliet, South Schodack. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Newtown Pippin
Abram Van Vranken & Sons, Vischer's Ferry. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy
H. S. Vermilyea, Chelsea. Bronze medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Northern Spy
James Vick's Sons, Rochester. Silver medal
  Apples
    Rhode Island Greening
F. Vroom, Pulteney. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Niagara, Salem
S. W. Wadhams, Clarkson. Bronze medal
  Peaches
    Crosby, Elberta
J. E. Wakeman, Lockport. Silver medal
  Apples
    Spitzenberg, Northern Spy
Ward Fruit Co., Ravena. Silver medal
  Apples
    Fall Pippin, Greening, Northern Spy, Spitzenberg
Henry D. Warner, Clifton Springs
  Apples
    Limber Twig
Ira Watson, Fredonia. Silver medal
  Apples
    Alexander, Sweet Bough
H. E. Wellman, Kendall. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Golden Russet, Rhode Island Greening
Samuel J. Wells, Fayetteville. Silver medal
  Apples
    King, Fall Pippin, Pound Sweet, Fall Greening, Swaar,
    Onondaga Sweet, Seek-no-Further, Rambo, Gilliflower,
    Alfred Sweet, Hubbardston Nonesuch, Rome Beauty, Lady
    Sweet, Steele's Red Winter, Spitzenberg, Red Astrachan,
    Yellow Transparent, Sweet Bough, Cornell, Golden Sweet
  Grapes
    Niagara, Isabella, Iona, Diana, Vergennes
  Pears
    Comet
Walter E. Wetmore, Wilson. Silver medal
  Apples
    Mann
T. D. Whitney, Flint. Silver medal
  Apples
    Dutchess, Primate, Sweet Bough
E. P. Willard, Cayuga. Bronze medal.
  Pears
    Beurre Bose, Clairgeau, Duchess
S. D. Willard, Geneva. Gold medal
  Apples.
    Stump, Martha Crab, Windsor Chief, Wealthy, North Star,
    Red Russet, Swaar, Black Gilliflower, Duchess, White
    Streak
  Peaches.
    Horton River, Wadell.
  Pears.
    White Doyenne, Beurre Clairgeau, Worden Seckel.
  Plums.
    America, Hale, Quackenboss, Arch Duke, Imperial Gage,
    Palmer's Favorite, Copper, Blue Damson, Coe's Golden
    Drop, Hudson River Purple Egg, Peters' Yellow Gage,
    Smith's Late Blue, Reine Claude, Grand Duke, Monarch,
    Geuii, Middleburgh, Lombard, Stanton's Seedling, Coe's
    Late Red, Shropshire, Wickson
  Quinces
    Orange
A. H. Wilcox, Gasport. Silver medal
  Apples
    Baldwin, Greening
I. A. Wilcox, Portland. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Campbell, Clinton, Delaware, Moore's Early, Vergennes
J. H. Windsor, Brockton. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Concord, Moore's Diamond, Niagara
M. Witherby, Brockton. Bronze medal
  Grapes
    Concord
Albert W. Wood & Son, Carlton Station. Silver medal
  Apples
    Cabashea, King, Hubbardston Nonesuch, Roxbury Russet
William W. Yost, Waterloo. Silver medal
  Apples
    Hendrick Sweet, King
Philip Zimmer, Keuka. Silver medal
  Grapes
    Catawba, Niagara
George Zorn, Hilton. Silver medal
  Apples
    Northern Spy, Roxbury Russet, Spitzenberg, Swaar

GROUP ONE HUNDRED EIGHT

Trees, Shrubs, Ornamental Plants and Flowers

Fred Beaulieu, Woodhaven, L. I., hose support. Silver Medal Charlton Nursery Co., Rochester,
peonies. Gold Medal Cottage Garden Co., Queens, L. I., peonies. Silver Medal Ellwanger & Barry,
Rochester, trees and shrubs. Gold Medal J. Roscoe Fuller, Floral Park, cannas. Silver Medal
Samuel Gilbert Harris, Tarrytown, roses. Gold Medal William F. Kasting, Buffalo, cannas. Gold
Medal William F. Kasting, Buffalo, ferns. Gold Medal F. R. Pierson & Co., Tarrytown, ferns.
Gold Medal John Scott, Brooklyn, ferns. Gold Medal Siebrecht & Sons, New Rochelle, ferns. Gold
Medal Siebrecht & Sons, New Rochelle, trees and shrubs. Gold Medal J. M. Thorburn & Co., New
York, bulbs. Silver Medal Arthur Cowee, Berlin, gladiolas

General Collaborator

Charles H. Vick, Rochester, Superintendent of Horticulture.

A SPORTSMAN'S CAMP

A modern sportsman's camp of rustic design, fourteen feet by seventeen feet in size, was constructed
and furnished after the general style and appearance of the usual summer residence in the Adirondack
mountains. The contractor for the erection of this camp was the firm of Messrs. D. B. & D.
F. Sperry, of Old Forge, N. Y. Mr. D. F. Sperry, "Frank," as he is known to visitors to the
Adirondacks, had personal charge of the construction and was something of an exhibit himself.
Being a lifelong Adirondack guide, and having been employed by many prominent people, among
others, ex-President Harrison, any rustic work from his hand was sure to attract attention.

It was unfortunate that it was impossible to have him, or some other Adirondack guide, in attendance
at the "camp" all through the season, as many visitors wished to see and talk with some such
person. Some of them, seeing the Sperry name-plate on the end of a log of the camp, inquired
for "Frank," expecting to find him in attendance. He has had many inquiries from people residing
at widely separated places in various parts of the country, for duplicates of the camp exhibit,
or for some other design of rustic building.

CONSTRUCTION OF THE CAMP

The camp was constructed of Adirondack spruce logs and the chimney was of the same external
construction. The roof was covered with spruce bark. All the material showing inside the camp
was, as far as possible, left in natural condition, the logs with the bark on, and the underside
of the roof boards unplaned, showing the coarse saw marks.

Innumerable inquiries were made by interested visitors, particularly those coming from the
southern and western States, as to the species of timber used in constructing the camp. When
informed that the logs were of spruce much interest was shown. Many had never seen spruce before.

THE FURNITURE

A part of the furniture was built by Mr. Sperry, and the remainder by another Adirondack guide,
Mr. E. E. Sumner, of Saranac Lake, N. Y. Mr. Sperry made the bedstead, the window settee and
the center table, after a style that is common in the Adirondack camps. The woodwork was of
spruce, turned smooth and stained a light smoke color to give it a finished appearance. Mr.
Sumner constructed the other furniture in the best rustic style, the framework being of white
cedar with the bark on, and the bottoms of the chairs and settees of white birch bark. Both
of these guides have had many inquiries for duplicates of their handiwork as exhibited. The
"atmosphere" of the camp was that of everyday life in the forest. The bed was "made up" as
though the owner was expected to occupy it at night. Garments and articles that had seen service,
such as a leather hunting jacket, a gun case, "pack" baskets, fish reels and snow shoes were
hung on the walls in proper places.

ATTRACTIVE FEATURES

The mantel and fireplace particularly attracted attention. The mantel was of spruce with the
bark on, and the fireplace was constructed with a stone facing and lining, showing andirons
and birch logs in place as in actual use. In one corner there was shelving for bric-a-brac,
fishing tackle, ammunition, etc., constructed by utilizing a discarded fishing boat, cutting
the same across the center into two parts and placing shelves at convenient intervals, fastening
the same on the ribs of the boat.

In another corner was a swing table that could be hung up against the wall when not in use.
On the mantel were placed articles of rustic work that harmonized with the surroundings--a
rustic clock, wooden pipes and smoking set to match, a stein and mug of wood, together with
other articles of ornament and utility. A piece of library shelving of unique design and special
construction was provided and furnished with standard publications on fish, birds and animals,
and stories of life in the forest and of the chase. Thirty books were shown, a number of which
were kindly furnished by Messrs. Doubleday, Page & Co., of New York city. On the center table
were kept the current numbers of the leading sporting magazines, both weekly and monthly.

WALL DECORATIONS

The walls were decorated with bright colored Indian blankets, flags and souvenir paddles, on
which were painted various national flags and camping scenes. The paddles being of a very white
spruce and the background being the spruce logs of the camp with dark colored bark, the effect
was pleasing and attracted much attention.

An interesting and valuable feature of the furnishing and decoration of the camp, and, incidentally,
souvenirs of the chase, were a large fine moose head over the mantel, an elk's head on the
gable outside, bucks' heads at the sides of the porch in front of the camp, and the furs of
red foxes, deer and black bear. Some of the furs were specially prepared for rugs and placed
on the floor of the camp, giving the interior an air of comfort and cheerfulness.

HUNTING AND FISHING OUTFIT

The hunting and fishing outfit consisted of two repeating rifles, one a Savage and the other
a Winchester, a double-barreled shotgun, three fishing rods, one each of steel, split lancewood
and split bamboo, and a collection which included trout flies, landing nets, minnow pail, reels,
lines, cartridge belt, loading set and other paraphernalia. A guide-boat of the latest style
and of superior workmanship was a part of the sportsman's outfit. This boat was kindly loaned
by the manufacturer, Mr. Fred W. Rice, formerly of Saranac Lake, N. Y., but now living at Seattle,
Wash. His son continues the manufacture of guide-boats at Lake Placid, N. Y.

BALSAM PILLOWS

On the settee and bed in the camp were a number of balsam pillows. A large and particularly
fine one came from the Higby camp on Big Moose lake in the Adirondacks. It was made by Miss
Lila Daisy Higby, a little lady only seven years of age, whose needlework decorating the cover
showed artistic ability of great merit for one so young. Many visitors admired it, and some
of them have written her in complimentary terms.

The odor from these pillows filled the camp, and instantly attracted the attention of visitors.
One of the questions usually asked first of the attendant was where the perfume came from and
what it was. Some supposed it to be from the logs of which the camp was constructed. Many visitors
wanted to know where they could obtain such pillows. Those purchased for the camp came from
Mr. A. M. Church, Boonville, N. Y., who also furnished the gun rack so much admired, and also
the fur rugs.

FIRE NOTICE

On the side of the camp in a conspicuous place was posted a fire notice such as may be found
in thousands of places along the trail throughout the Adirondacks and Catskills. Visitors that
had been through our mountains recognized this feature instantly, for these notices may be
found at all the hotels and public places, and also on a great many of the private camps. This
little placard printed on cloth attracted much attention. It contains our forest fire rules
and much of the law relative to woodland fires. Many persons interested in forestry, many of
them from foreign countries, copied the notice verbatim. It is probable that similar rules
and regulations will be incorporated in the forestry laws of other states and countries.

An attendant was employed at the camp who answered the numerous questions as to where the various
articles of furniture and decoration might be obtained. Much information was also sought by
visitors in relation to the Adirondack forests and the summer resorts of New York in general.

This sportsman's camp was the only exhibit of the kind shown at the Fair. Sportsmen and lovers
of life in the woods from all parts of the land visited it; many were ecstatic in its praises;
some complimented it by saying it was the most artistic feature of the whole forestry, fish
and game exhibit. It was photographed perhaps more than one hundred times during the season
and in one instance by nine different persons on a single day.

ANIMALS AND BIRDS

The fur and game animals and birds of the State were represented by mounted specimens prepared
by professional taxidermists. In many instances they were shown in pairs, male and female.

The space in front of the camp and also at one side was inclosed by a rustic fence built of
round spruce. In the yard at the side was placed a tree about twelve feet high, and under it
was prepared an artificial ground work in imitation of a woodland area after a recent snow
storm. In and about this tree, and forming a part of the picture, were placed in position,
as true to life and natural conditions as possible, specimens of practically all of the birds
that remain with us during the winter season, as follows:

Bald Eagle Golden Eagle Osprey Red-tailed Hawk Cooper Hawk Marsh Hawk Ruffed Grouse Spruce
Grouse Quail Kingfisher Three-toed Woodpecker Pileated Woodpecker Goshawk Red-shouldered Hawk
Sharp-shinned Hawk Broad-winged Hawk Rough-legged Hawk Duck Hawk, Gray Gyrfalcon Snow Owl Barred
Owl Great-horned Owl Long-eared Owl Short-eared Owl Acadian Owl Screech Owl Great Gray Owl
Hawk Owl Barn Owl Richardson Owl Hairy Woodpecker Downy Woodpecker Flicker Pine Grosbeak Red-winged
Crossbill White-winged Crossbill Redpoll Blue Jay Horned Lark Lapland Longspur English Sparrow
Winter Wren Chickadee Northern Shrike Snowflake Moose Bird Raven Crow

SONG AND PERCHING BIRDS

In and about another tree placed in front of the camp were shown practically all of the song
and perching birds of the State other than the ones shown in the winter scene at the side of
the camp. The birds in this collection were as follows:

Cardinal Summer Tanager Scarlet Tanager Yellow-billed Cuckoo Black-billed Cuckoo Red-headed
Woodpecker Red-bellied Woodpecker Yellow-bellied Sapsucker King Bird Cat Bird Towhee Robin
Meadow Lark Prairie Horned Lark Baltimore Oriole Orchard Oriole Whip-poor-will Night Hawk Pigeon
Hawk Sparrow Hawk Mourning Dove Rose-breasted Grosbeak Evening Grosbeak Purple Finch Red-winged
Blackbird Rusty Blackbird Bobolink Mocking Bird Starling Purple Grackle Humming Bird Yellow-breasted
Chat Blue-gray Gnatcatcher Tufted Titmouse Brown Creeper House Wren Marsh Wren Brown Thrasher
Wood Thrush Hermit Thrush Wilson Thrush Water Thrush Chimney Swift Bank Swallow Rough-winged
Swallow Cliff Swallow Barn Swallow Song Sparrow Tree Sparrow Blue Bird Indigo Bunting Ruby-crowned
Kinglet Golden-crowned Kinglet Oven Bird Yellow Throat Goldfinch Bohemian Waxwing Cedar Waxwing
Phoebe Wood Pewee White-eyed Vireo Blue-headed Vireo Yellow-throated Vireo Warbling Vireo Black
and White Warbler Worm-eating Warbler Myrtle Warbler Prairie Warbler Palm Warbler Tennessee
Warbler Black-throated Blue Warbler Cerulean Warbler Prothonotary Warbler Blackburnian Warbler
Black-throated Green Warbler Hooded Warbler Golden-winged Warbler Connecticut Warbler Mourning
Warbler Canadian Warbler Blue-winged Warbler Chipping Sparrow Field Sparrow Swamp Sparrow Ipswich
Sparrow White-crowned Sparrow Olive-sided Flycatcher Yellow-bellied Flycatcher Loggerhead Shrike
Purple Martin Cow Bird Pine Warbler Kentucky Warbler Nashville Warbler Parula Warbler Cape
May Warbler Yellow Warbler Black-poll Warbler Red-breasted Nuthatch Brown-headed Nuthatch

GAME BIRDS

In cabinets within an inclosure near the camp were shown our game birds, such as the web-footed
wild fowl and shore birds which may be hunted, grouse, marsh birds or waders, and water or
sea birds, as follows:

Wild Ducks and Geese

American Merganser Red-breasted Merganser Hooded Merganser Mallard Pintail Black Duck Widgeon
Green-winged Teal Blue-winged Teal Shoveler Wood Duck Redhead Canvas-back Broadbill Lesser
Scaup Duck Whistler Buffle-head Ruddy Duck Old Squaw Harlequin American Eider King Eider Black
Coot Sea Coot White-winged Scoter Canada Goose Greater Snow Goose Blue Goose White-fronted
Goose Brant Whistling Swan

Shore Birds

Woodcock Wilson Snipe Upland Plover Black-bellied Plover Golden Plover Semi-palmated Plover
Belted Piping Plover Wilson Plover Piping Plover Killdeer Willett Greater Yellow Legs Summer
Yellow Legs Turnstone Red Phalarope Northern Phalarope Avocet Oyster Catcher Long-billed Curlew
Jack Curlew Hudsonian Godwit Sanderling Black-necked Stilt Dowitcher Knot Stilt Sandpiper Solitary
Sandpiper Spotted Sandpiper Red-backed Sandpiper White-rumped Sandpiper Least Sandpiper Buff-breasted
Sandpiper

Grouse, etc.

Ruffed Grouse Quail Spruce Grouse Mongolian Pheasant English Pheasant

Marsh Birds or Waders

Great Blue Heron Little Green Heron Black-crowned Night Heron Yellow-crowned Night Heron Egret
Brown Pelican Bittern King Rail Virginia Rail Yellow Rail Clapper Rail Carolina Rail Little
Black Rail Florida Gallinule Mud Hen

Water or Sea Birds

Loon Black-throated Loon Red-throated Loon Horned Grebe Holboel Grebe Pied-billed Grebe Puffin
Dovekie Cormorant Double-crested Cormorant Black Guillemot Brunnich Murre Paresitic [*sic]
Jaegar Kittiwake Gannet Black Skimmer Sooty Shearwater Great Black-backed Gull Ring-billed
Gull Claucus Gull Herring Gull Laughing Gull Bonapart Gull Black Tern Gull-billed Tern Wilson
Tern Roseate Tern Least Tern Black-capped Petrel Leach Petrel Wilson Petrel

FUR AND GAME ANIMALS

All of our fur and game animals were represented as follows:

White-tail or Virginia Deer Black Bear Lynx Wild Cat Red Fox Gray Fox Beaver Raccoon Skunk
Otter Fisher Cottontail Rabbit Martin Mink Black Squirrel Gray Squirrel Red Squirrel Fox Squirrel
Flying Squirrel Chipmunk Musk Rat Opossum Varying Hare Porcupine

Our deer were represented by a fine buck, a doe mounted in a reclining position, and a small
white doe. Arranged among bushes in the snow scene at the side of the camp this family was
most lifelike and pleasing in appearance. White deer are very unusual, but not unnatural. One
of them is killed in this State about every two years.

Moose and elk are introduced animals with us now, and, as it is illegal to kill any, life size
specimens could not well be shown. However, very good heads were exhibited as a part of the
decoration of the camp. Albinos of muskrat and porcupine were exhibited. Such freakish specimens
attract more attention than those of usual growth.

RARE SPECIES

In addition to the animals scheduled above were specimens of some species that are probably
extinct in the Adirondacks, viz., a gray wolf and a panther. The gray wolf was an excellent
specimen loaned by General E. A. McAlpin, of New York city. It was killed about eight years
ago on his preserve in the northern part of Hamilton county, and none have been seen since.
The panther was killed about twenty-eight years ago by Hon. Verplanck Colvin in the southern
part of Hamilton county, and is the last one heard of in the State of New York. The black bear
was an unusually fine specimen, killed in Sullivan county. It was mounted to order by Mr. Fred
Sauter, of New York city, for this exhibit, and without doubt was the best representative of
this species at the Fair. Experts in the art of taxidermy and naturalists were enthusiastic
in its praise.

The great blue heron was loaned by Mr. Grant E. Winchester, of Saranac Inn. It was a very good
specimen and was mounted by Mr. H. H. Miner, of Saranac Lake, N. Y.

The animals were placed about the camp under the trees in connection with the collection of
birds in positions as true to life as possible in the available space, making a picture of
woodland life delightful to the eye and interesting to every person that visited the Palace
of Forestry, Fish and Game.

FISH

The fish exhibit consisted of eighty-six mounted specimens, representing seventy-two species,
most of them prepared specially for this display by the best workmen in the country. Substantially
all the food and game fish were shown. In preparing this collection no attempt, with one exception,
was made to show abnormally large specimens. The intention was to show the average fish true
to life in color, size and contour. Both fresh and salt water species were represented. The
collection, which is undoubtedly the best in the country, comprised the following species:

Sea Lamphrey Common Sturgeon Short-nosed Sturgeon Horned Pout Long-nose Sucker Common Sucker
Hog Sucker Golden Sucker Fallfish Carp Eel Sea Herring Hickory Shad Frostfish Common Whitefish
Smelt Tullibee Atlantic Salmon Red-throat Trout Brown Trout Rainbow Trout Lake Trout Brook
Trout Grayling Pickerel Northern Pike Shad Menhaden Spanish Mackerel Pompano Bluefish Crappie
Calico Bass Rock Bass Sunfish Small-mouth Black Bass Large-mouth Black Bass Wall-eyed Pike
Weakfish Red Drum Kingfish Tautog Rosefish Tomcod Haddock Ling Cusk Summer Flounder Flatfish
Muscallonge Northern Muscallonge Striped Mullet Common Mackerel Bonito Sauger Yellow Perch
White Bass Striped Bass White Perch Sea Bass Scup Spotted Weakfish Croaker Bergall Spadefish
Whiting Cod Burbot Hake Halibut Sand Dab Gar Pike

In addition to the above-mentioned specimens there was shown an interesting collection of shell
fish, including different varieties of oysters, together with the enemies of the same, such
as the drill and starfish. A number of exhibits showing curiosities of oyster growth were in
this collection.

The fish were displayed in six cabinets constructed to order for the exhibit. They were lined
with black plush, thus forming a strong contrast with the colors of the various pieces.

The land-locked salmon mentioned above is one of the finest pieces extant, not only in relation
to size but also in the mounting of the same. It is owned by Hon. J. P. Allds, Norwich, N.
Y., and was kindly loaned by him for this exhibit.

A great northern pike that weighed twenty-five pounds when caught was in the collection. It
was loaned by Mr. Ferris J Meigs, of New York city, and was caught in Follensbee pond, in the
Adirondacks, by Miss Juliet Wilbur Tompkins in 1902. This is the largest pike, sometimes erroneously
called pickerel, within the knowledge of the Forest, Fish and Game Commission.

GENERAL NOMENCLATURE

All the specimens of animals, birds and fish were properly and uniformly labeled, giving the
names the various species are generally known by, and also the scientific nomenclature adopted
by naturalists. The importance of this matter of nomenclature was demonstrated very early during
the Fair. The song birds being very small no labels were placed upon them at first, as the
labels were in some instances larger than the birds. The fact that visitors examining the specimens
would often search for the attendant in order to obtain information as to the names of the
different birds exhibited proved the necessity of clearly labeling all specimens. On the other
hand there seemed to be a general misunderstanding as to some species of fish, various names
being applied to the same species. Visitors were constantly requesting information on these
points. The northern pike are by many people called pickerel and sometimes when in water with
pickerel are mistaken for muscallonge. The distinguishing marks were frequently explained to
interested visitors.

FORESTRY

One of the most scientific and practical features of the New York exhibit was that made by
the Forestry department. It was prepared to show the method by which the Forestry Commission
is reforesting large areas of State land that have been denuded by repeated fires.

A FOREST NURSERY

The most important part of this was a fully appointed forest nursery, located out of doors
close to the northeast corner of the Forest, Fish and Game building. Its neat rustic fence,
made of white cedar poles, enclosed an area Of 7,200 square feet (120 feet long by 60 wide)
and contained about 80,000 little trees alive and green. The soil being of heavy clay, it was
covered to the depth of six inches with good loam before any seeds were sown.

About one-third of the nursery was arranged in beds each sixteen feet long by four feet wide
with paths three feet in width. In two of these beds seeds were sown of Scotch pine, Norway
spruce, hardy catalpa and American elm, half a bed being given to each species. The seeds were
sown about the first of May. They germinated well, and the little trees grew thriftily, the
catalpa reaching a height of eighteen inches before the Fair closed. A bed of Norway pine showed
the plants on half the bed crowded together in a thick mat as if grown from seed sown broadcast;
on the other half arranged as if from seed sown in rows across the bed, both methods of sowing
seed being followed in actual practice. Four beds were given to two-year-old plants--Norway
spruce, white pine, European larch and Scotch pine. These were also arranged as if grown from
seed sown broadcast.

These beds, excepting the seed bed for broad-leaf species, were all shaded with neat screens
made of lath to shelter the tender plants from the hot rays of the southern sun.

In actual nursery work, after conifers have remained in the seed bed for two years, they are
transplanted into other beds, being spaced four or five inches apart, where they remain for
two or three years more before they are placed finally in the forest. Six beds were devoted
to showing this feature of nursery work. For this purpose four-year-old plants were used, of
the following species Norway pine, Norway spruce, white spruce, white pine, European larch
and Scotch pine.

A sample plantation which occupied nearly half the nursery showed how the plants are, in actual
practice, placed in the forest. White pine, Norway spruce and Scotch pine were the species
used. These were about three feet high and were spaced about four feet apart.

To show how the broad-leaf species are raised for shade trees, for planting along the highways
of the State, for farmers' wood lots, for sugar groves and hardwood forests, ten drills, stretching
entirely across the nursery between the beds and the sample plantation, were planted with scarlet
oak, red oak, honey locust, hard or sugar maple, red or soft maple, basswood, white ash, black
walnut and hardy catalpa, a row being given to each species. These were one year old and were
spaced about six inches apart.

The names of the species were printed plainly on neat board labels ten inches long by five
inches broad. The nursery was kept free from weeds, and was watered each evening during a long
drought which began about the first of September and continued till the Fair closed.

Thousands of people visited the nursery, attracted to it not only by the beauty of the small
green trees arranged in such interesting manner, but also because of the instruction it afforded
in the science of forestry. Foresters, botanists, seedsmen, and others interested in trees
in a scientific or practical way, many of whom were from abroad, gave the nursery close scrutiny.

The forester in charge who prepared the nursery, Mr. A. Knechtel, B.S.F.E., of Albany, N. Y.,
was kept constantly busy answering the numerous questions not only concerning the exhibit,
but also in regard to the important work being done by the Forestry Department in restoring
the forests upon the denuded non-agricultural lands of the State.

In a corner of the nursery stood two interesting cross-sections of white pine and white spruce,
twenty-three inches and sixteen inches in diameter respectively, each having forty annual rings
plainly visible, showing that in forty years, under favorable conditions, trees of these species
can be grown from seed to the given diameters.

FORESTRY TOOLS AND INSTRUMENTS

Within the building were exhibited thirty-nine instruments and tools used in forestry practice,
a collection of the seeds of eighty-four native forest trees of the State, and the photographs
of eighty of our more important trees showing the same in leaf and in winter. In connection
with each pair of photographs was a life size illustration of the bark of the tree, together
with specimens of the leaf, flower and fruit.

INSECTS AFFECTING FOREST AND SHADE TREES

The exhibit of insects affecting forest and shade trees was prepared by E. P. Felt, D.Sc.,
New York State Entomologist, and was a small, though representative collection, designed to
show the life, history and habits in particular of the more injurious forms of insects affecting
shade and forest trees in New York State. A special effort was made to depict, so far as possible,
the life, history, habits and methods of work of the forms possessing economic importance and
to show whenever possible the natural enemies of value in keeping these species in control.
This collection was arranged in a specially designed case having a series of three nearly horizontal
trays thirty-seven and one-half inches by eighteen and one-half inches upon each side, and
an elevated central portion bearing two nearly perpendicular ones upon each side, the middle
being occupied by a glass case containing an attractive natural group. A brief account of the
exhibit under appropriate heads is as follows:

Insect galls. This collection, occupying two nearly perpendicular trays and representing the
work of fifty-three species, was devoted to the peculiar and varied vegetable deformities produced
by insects. These structures are always of great popular interest, and the insects causing
the same present biologic problems of unusual attractiveness.

Forest insects. The species affecting forest trees in particular were exhibited in three horizontal
trays occupying one side of the case. This section was devoted principally to representing
the biology and methods of work of this exceedingly important group.

Shade-tree insects. Like that representing forest insects, the exhibit of shade-tree pests
was very largely biologic. It occupied three horizontal trays and a nearly vertical one of
the exhibit case, and was devoted to species which are destructive largely on account of their
depredations upon shade trees.

Adirondack insects. This was a small collection occupying one of the nearly perpendicular trays,
and comprised over one hundred species. This portion of the exhibit represented the more characteristic
forms occurring in the Adirondacks.

Natural group of forest insects. This group occupied the central glass box and contained thirty-one
species of insects or representations of their work upon wax models of their food plants, namely,
white birch, red oak, elm and maple. Eleven species of beetles, fifteen of butterflies and
moths, two of the bee family and three of the bug family were to be seen upon the plants or
on the ground at their base. This group gave an excellent idea of the appearance of insects
when amid their natural surroundings.

COLORED PLATES

A series of quarto and octavo colored plates illustrating the work and various stages of some
of the more important depredators upon forest and shade trees, was exhibited in two double-faced
frames attached to the top of this case. The more important insects included in this group
were the following: Sugar maple borer, elm snout beetles, twig girdler or twig pruner, white
marked tussock moth, gypsy moth, brown tail moth, bag worm, forest tent caterpillar, elm leaf
beetle, oyster scale, scurfy bark louse, San Jose scale, elm bark louse, cottony maple scale.
One plate was devoted to characteristic insects affecting oak, and another to those depredating
upon hard pine.

SPECIMENS OF NATIVE WOODS

The forest product of the State was represented by a collection of specimens of all the native
woods of New York, built into panel work, showing both sides. Each species was represented
by two specimens and each of the four surfaces was finished in a different manner. One surface
was highly polished, one oiled, one planed and one rough. Ninety-one species of native and
nine species of introduced woods were exhibited in this manner. Displaying the several species
in four different ways enabled the discriminating observer to study and compare the various
woods profitably. The manner of labeling was greatly appreciated. Some students copied all
the labels, each spending many hours on this task.

The kinds of timber that grow in this State from which a five-inch board can be sawed and which
were represented as described, are as follows:

Cucumber Tree Tulip Tree Basswood Linden Holly Striped Maple Hard Maple Silver Maple Red Maple
Box Elder Staghorn Sumach Kentucky Coffee Tree Honey Locust Red or Canada Plum Wild Plum Green
Ash Sassafras American Elm Rock Elm Slippery Elm Wild Red Cherry Wild Black Cherry Wild Crab
Apple Mountain Ash Cockspur Thorn Black Haw Scarlet Fruited Thorn Shad Bush Witch Hazel Sweet
Gum Flowering Dogwood Pepperidge Persimmon Black Ash White Ash Red Ash Scarlet Oak Black Oak
Pin Oak Jack Oak Hackberry Red Mulberry Sycamore Butternut Black Walnut Bitternut Shagbark
Hickory Mockernut Hickory Pignut Hickory King Nut Hickory Small Fruited Hickory White Oak Post
Oak Burr Oak Chestnut Oak Chinquapin Oak Yellow Oak Swamp White Oak Red Oak White Pine Red
Pine Pitch Pine Jersey Pine Yellow Pine Jack Pine Tamarack White Poplar Crack Willow Weeping
Willow Lalanthus Chestnut Beech Ironwood Blue Beech Black Birch Yellow Birch White Birch Red
Birch Canoe Birch Yellow Willow Black Willow Peach Willow Aspen Large Toothed Poplar Swamp
Cottonwood Balm of Gilead Cottonwood Red Cedar White Cedar Arbor Vitae Black Spruce Red Spruce
White Spruce Hemlock Balsam Lombardy Poplar Wild Apple Yellow Locust Horse Chestnut Blue Willow

These specimens of wood were built into panel work in seven frames of the following seven species
of wood, respectively:

Maple Cherry Chestnut Rock Elm White Oak Black Ash Black Birch

LABELING OF SPECIMENS

Each specimen was labeled on both sides, with the common or popular name and also the botanical
name. Most of the pieces were from a collection that the Commission exhibited at the Paris
Exposition in 1900, which was there awarded a gold medal. In preparing the exhibit the collection
was enlarged so as to represent all our native woods, and built into new frame work of substantial
and attractive design.

WOOD PULP

A complete collection of the several kinds of wood pulp manufactured in New York was also a
part of the exhibit, as follows:

Ground Spruce pulp Sulphite Spruce pulp Sulphite Balsam pulp Sulphite Poplar pulp Sulphite
Basswood pulp Pulverized Pine pulp Pulverized Poplar pulp

Ground and sulphite pulp is used in the manufacture of paper and many household articles of
utility. Pulverized pulp is used in making linoleum and dynamite.

Although wood pulp was shown in some other exhibits, no one else made any attempt to show a
complete collection of all the various kinds of pulp manufactured.

Articles of utility made of pulp, such as wash tubs, pails, measures, cups, pitchers, etc.,
fifty-three pieces in all, were shown in connection with the display of pulp.

BY-PRODUCTS OF THE FOREST

By-products of the forest were also displayed on a piece of circular shelving with a suitable
caption. The articles in this collection were as follows:

Crude wood alcohol Refined wood alcohol Columbian spirits Acetic acid Refined acetic acid Glacial
acetic acid Acetate of lime Gray acetate of lime Pine needle extract Light wood tar Heavy wood
tar Creosote Tannic acid Pine pitch Spruce gum (raw) Refined spruce gum Basswood honey Black
walnuts Wood ashes Charcoal Chestnuts Hickory nuts Beechnuts Hazel nuts Maple sugar (cakes)
Maple lozenges Maple kisses Maple sugar (pulverized) Maple syrup Mocker nuts Butter nuts Sassafras
Witch hazel

There was no other exhibit of this nature at the Fair.

SUMMER RESORTS

On one side of the space occupied by the exhibit was a high wall which was covered with green
burlap. On this wall were three groups of large photographs, one of the Thousand Islands, one
of Adirondack and one of Catskill scenery.

In the Thousand Island group in addition to a collection of typical island scenery, was a large
picture of the Thousand Island House at Alexandria Bay, N. Y., furnished by the owner, O. G.
Staples; a picture of the Hotel Frontenac on Round Island loaned by the owner, and a very large
colored picture of the excursion steamer "Ramona," on tour through the islands, loaned by the
Thousand Island Steamboat Company, Cape Vincent, N. Y.

The Catskill pictures consisted of photographs of mountain scenery and waterfalls, prepared
specially for this exhibit. A fine group of scenes was furnished by the Catskill Mountain Railroad
of Catskill, N. Y., showing the Otis Elevated road, the Mountain House, etc.

The group of Adirondack views contained pictures of a number of the largest hotels in that
region, and collections of mountain and water scenery. One group was of Lake George scenery.
A large picture of Wawbeek Hotel, on Upper Saranac Lake, was furnished by J. Ben Hart, of Wawbeek,
N. Y. The Delaware and Hudson Railroad Company kindly loaned a large panoramic picture of Lake
Placid and mountains of that locality.

Many of these pictures were in colors. They were appreciated by a great number of people that
had visited the several summer resorts represented.

AN OPEN HUNTING CAMP

A model of a hunting camp of the open style, of which there are many in the Adirondacks, was
displayed. It was constructed of spruce with the bark on, and the floor was covered with balsam
boughs, which exhaled a delightful odor noticeable several yards from the camp.

A large rustic table made of a cross section of a cedar tree with the roots of a tree for the
standard and legs of the table, was loaned by Mr. Ferris J. Meigs, of Tupper Lake, N. Y. The
tree from which the cross section was taken showed by its growth of rings that it was more
than four hundred years old.

DETAILS OF EXPENDITURE

For the purpose of making this State Forestry, Fish and Game exhibit, the Louisiana Purchase
Exposition Commission generously set aside the sum of $18,000. Being unable to secure as much
space as was needed, and for the additional reason that the salaries of some of the persons
collaborating on the exhibit were provided for in another manner, it was not necessary to use
all of the funds available.

Dividing the disbursements into ten representative accounts, the amount
expended was as follows:
Animals and birds -------------------------   $2,211 56
    Fish ----------------------------------    1,792 51
    Insects -------------------------------      644 52
    Plants for nursery, etc. --------------      392 69
    Woods, instruments, by-products, etc. -    1,119 28
    Sportsman's Camp and furnishings ------    1,507 92
    Wall pictures -------------------------      278 93
    Freight and express -------------------      697 10
    Installation --------------------------    2,481 76
    Maintenance and repacking -------------    3,717 81
                                           ------------
Total -------------------------------------  $14,844 08
                                           ------------

Had the exhibit been prepared without recourse to materials on hand and by a separate force
paid from the funds of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission it would have undoubtedly
cost the State not less than $20,000, but the fact that considerable material was available
from former exhibits, and from the office of the Forest, Fish and Game Commission, and the
further fact, as above stated, that some of the collaborators received their compensation from
the funds of that Commission, enabled the State to make the elaborate and exhaustive exhibit
that it did in this department at the figures shown above.

THE ROSTER

The exhibit was prepared under the direction of Colonel William F. Fox, Superintendent State
Forests.

Following is a roster of the persons employed at the exhibit:

Arthur B. Strough, Special Agent in charge Abraham Knechtel, Forester Charles C. Hembree, Attendant
Victor Mahlstedt, Gardener

AWARDS

The awards were all conferred upon the Forest, Fish and Game Commission or upon State officials.
The juries in the Departments of Forestry, Fish and Game were made up of eminent specialists,
and their work was done in a thorough and painstaking manner. They expressed themselves in
complimentary terms on the various features of the exhibit, and the result of their deliberations
cannot but be gratifying to all who are interested in the advanced work of the Empire State
in forestry, in forest preserves and in the protection of our native fish and game.

List of the Awards Classified Under the Several Groups of the Official Classification

GROUP ONE HUNDRED TWELVE

Appliances and Processes Used in Forestry

Collective exhibit of progressive forestry. Grand prize
    Seeds of the trees
    Instruments and tools used in forestry
    Forest nursery and demonstration plantation
    Photographs
    Native trees with botanical specimens
    Forest insects

William F. Fox, for services in the forestry exhibit. Gold medal Arthur B. Strough, for services
in forestry exhibit. Silver medal Abraham Knechtel, for services in forestry exhibit. Silver
medal E. P. Felt, D. Sc., for services in entomological exhibit, forest insects. Silver medal

GROUP ONE HUNDRED THIRTEEN

Products of the Cultivation of Forests

Model sportsman's camp and outfit. Gold medal Exhibit of woods, by-products, etc. Grand prize
William F. Fox, for services on sportsman's camp exhibit. Silver medal

GROUP ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-ONE

Products of Hunting

Collective exhibit of animals and birds. Gold medal
Arthur B. Strough, for services on game and sporting exhibit.
  Silver medal

GROUP ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-TWO

Fishing Equipment and Products

Collective exhibit of fish. Grand prize John D. Whish, for making collection of fish. Silver medal

A summary of the awards is as follows: Three grand prizes Three gold medals Six silver medals

The exhibit in this department differed somewhat from the State exhibits in other departments
in that, with the exception of a very few articles, which were loaned by private parties to
complete or supplement the collections, the showing was exclusively a State exhibit.

SOME SURPRISING FACTS

The exhibit as a whole was immensely popular from the very first day. The people visiting the
Exposition were largely from the southern and middle western states, and seemed very generally
to believe that New York's forests, fish and game has passed away with the advance of civilization.
Most of them were greatly surprised to learn that one-fourth of the State is wild land, which
will in all probability always be devoted largely to forests, and that the State has so many
wild deer that 6,000 of them are killed annually without any apparent decrease of the number.

The sportsman's camp served the purpose of advertising the great Adirondack region as a summer
resort, and a great many visitors expressed their intention of visiting that locality in the
near future.

Probably one of the best features of the exhibit was the work shown by the Commission in progressive
forestry. This State being in the van of the forestry movement was looked to to point out the
path of professional forestry, and if no other award had been made than the grand prize by
the scientific jury that served in that Department, we would feel as though our efforts has
been appreciated and that our labors had not been in vain.

CHAPTER XIV

Mines and Metallurgy Exhibit and Schedule of Awards

MINES AND METALLURGY EXHIBIT By H. H. HINDSHAW Special Agent of the State Museum

As in previous expositions at which the State of New York has been an exhibitor, the scientific
exhibits were made through the organization of the State Museum. Dr. F. J. H. Merrill, the
director of the museum, assigned to the writer the duty of preparing the exhibit to be made
under his direction. The available time and money entered largely into the settlement of the
question of what form the exhibit should take.

SCOPE OF EXHIBIT

It was thought best to confine the scope of the main exhibit to the technologic and commercial
aspects of geology and mineralogy. A judicious selection of materials made to show the mineral
wealth of the State was considered more desirable than to make merely a large display. Many
of the materials exhibited were taken from the State Museum collections, supplemented where
necessary by such additions as could be obtained within the required time.

The benefit derived by the State from such exhibits is often much more apparent than that which
is to be derived by the individual exhibitors, and on this account the Commission is particularly
indebted to those firms and individuals which went to considerable expense in preparing exhibits
along lines which were intended more to represent all phases of an industry rather than to
show the products of a single firm.

Those deserving especial mention in this connection are The Solvay Process Company, of Syracuse;
The H. H. Mathews Consolidated Slate Company, of Boston; the Helderberg Cement Company, of
Howes Cave; The Hudson River Bluestone Company, of New York; the Medina Sandstone Company,
of New York, and the United States Gypsum Company, of Chicago.

INSTALLATION

The cases used were taken from the museum, and suitable stands for the building stone and other
exhibits were constructed in Albany. On account of the weight of the specimens exhibited the
floor had to be strengthened. This work, as well as the building of platforms and partitions,
was done under contract by Messrs. Caldwell and Drake.

The exhibits of mineral resources may be divided into the metallic and non-metallic groups.

IRON

In the first division in our State, iron is by far the most important and probably the one
with which the people of the State are least acquainted. A few years ago New York stood near
the head of the iron producing states. The depression in the iron industries, commencing about
1888, and the discovery about that time of the seemingly inexhaustible deposits of rich ores
in the Lake Superior region, however, resulted in shutting down nearly all of our mines. For
the last few years little attention has been paid to them, and they seem to have been popularly
supposed to have been worked out. The Exposition gave an opportunity of showing this supposition
to be incorrect, and recent investigations show that the deposits are of much greater extent
and value than was known in the eighties. With but one or two exceptions none of the mines
then worked are exhausted, and immense bodies of valuable ore have not been touched. Most of
the non-mining localities were represented by specimens from the museum collections. Messrs.
Witherbee, Sherman & Company exhibited a series of ores and concentrates from Mineville, the
Arnold Mining Company, magnetites and martite from Arnold Hill, and the Chateaugay Ore and
Iron Company, specimens from Lyon Mountain.

MAGNETITE

A series of magnetite and associated rocks from the Tilly Foster and other mines were supplemented
by a model of the Tilly Foster mine which was loaned to the museum for this purpose by the
Columbia School of Mines.

HEMATITES

The St. Lawrence and Jefferson county hematites were represented by large specimens of ore
and by a series of associated rocks and minerals, including some beautiful specimens of millerite,
chalcedite, etc. These hematites are mined in a belt about thirty miles long reaching from
Philadelphia, Jefferson county, into Hermon, St. Lawrence county. They are known as the Antwerp
red hematites, and, being very easily smelted, are mixed with more refractory ores.

The Clinton or fossil ores extend in a belt across the central part of the State and are mined
in the vicinity of Clinton, Oneida county, and in Ontario and Wayne counties.

The limonites shown from Dutchess and Columbia counties included some fine specimens of stalactitic
ore.

Carbonate ores were shown from Columbia and Ulster counties, where there are extensive deposits
on both sides of the Hudson river.

MAGNETIC SEPARATOR

A feature of the iron ore exhibit was a magnetic separator supplied by the Wetherill Separator
Company, of New York. This was kept at work on the magnetite ores from Mineville, and was of
great interest not only in showing the method of concentrating the magnetic ore, but also in
saving the phosphorus which occurs in the form of the mineral apatite and which is of considerable
value in the manufacture of fertilizers. A large quantity of ore was donated for this purpose
by Messrs. Witherbee, Sherman & Company.

LEAD

Lead, generally associated with zinc and sometimes copper, has been mined on a small scale
from very early times in Ulster and Sullivan counties, and more recently in St. Lawrence county.
Many other localities have yielded small quantities of these minerals.

A set of specimens was exhibited by the Ellenville Zinc Company, consisting of strikingly beautiful
crystalline masses of quartz galina, sphalerite and chalcopyrite and specimens of the rare
mineral, brookite. There was also shown in the same case concentrates from the Ellenville mine
of lead, zinc and copper made both by jigging and by magnetic separation, and a collection
of ores and associated minerals and rocks from Rossie and Wurtzboro.

NON-METALLIC MINERALS

A large part of this exhibit consisted of construction materials, stone, slate, brick, tiling
and cement. Most of the building stone was exhibited in the form of ten-inch cubes arranged
on three pyramidal stands. Only a few of these were especially collected for this Exposition.
Many more which were considered desirable could not be obtained in time on account of the inclement
weather conditions of the preceding winter.

GRANITES

The granitic rocks included granite, gneisses, syenites and norite. This series only inadequately
represented the New York granites. Among the most striking examples shown were the coarse grained
red granite from Grindstone island in the St. Lawrence river, the Mohican granite from Peekskill,
Westchester county, which is being extensively used in the Cathedral of St. John the Divine
in New York city, and the dark green labradorite rock known as the Ausable granite from Keeseville,
Essex county. There are many interesting granite deposits, especially in the Adirondack region,
which have not been developed.

MARBLES

The marbles included some fine examples of decorative stone from South Dover, Dutchess county,
the black marble from Glens Falls, monumental and building marbles from Gouverneur, St. Lawrence
county, and white building marbles from southeastern New York.

LIMESTONES

Limestones of excellent quality are quarried in a great number of localities and were well
represented, some of them showing as fine a polished surface as the true marbles.

SANDSTONES

The State is also rich in sandstones of good quality. The Potsdam sandstone forms an almost
complete belt around the Adirondacks and is an excellent building stone. Its color is from
white to pale red, and in many places it is an extremely hard quartzite. Specimens were shown
from Potsdam, St. Lawrence county.

The white sandstones of Washington county have been extensively used for refractory purposes
in the manufacture of steel, being almost free from iron. The Medina sandstones are quarried
in the neighborhood of Medina, Albion and Lockport. While a pure white stone occurs at Lewiston,
the Medina stone is generally of a pinkish red color. It is extensively used as a building
stone, particularly in Buffalo and Rochester. It is valuable for paving, curbing and flagging.
The Medina Sandstone Company exhibited a piece of wall work to show the various methods of
finish, including a finely carved lintel. A number of cubes were exhibited from various quarries.

The sandstones of southern New York occurring in the rocks of Devonian age are generally fine
grained and blue or greenish in color and are known as bluestones. Most of the quarries are
in the counties of Greene, Ulster, Broome, Delaware and Sullivan. They are described in New
York State Museum Bulletin 61 by Harold T. Dickinson. There is a great variety in color and
physical properties of stone from these quarries. It is used as building stone and for trimming,
and some of it is especially valuable for large platforms. A large proportion of the output
is in the form of flagging and curbstone.

The Hudson River Bluestone Company exhibited a piece of wall built into the base of the pyramidal
stand holding the sandstone cubes. This was designed to show the ease with which it can be
worked and included some finely carved lettering. The main entrance to the exhibit was paved
with flags and tiles of this material.

SLATE

With the sandstones were shown some ten-inch cubes of slate cut from the quarries of the H.
H. Mathews Consolidated Slate Company, of Boston, which operates a number of quarries in Washington
county. The slate belt covers an area of about 320 square miles, the larger part of which is
in Washington county, N. Y., but which extends across the line into Rutland county, Vt. This
is probably the richest slate region in the world. The beds are of great thickness, belonging
to two distinct geologic formations. They are folded on one another in such a manner as to
present the workable beds in long parallel ridges.

On account of its great strength and easy working qualities new uses are constantly being found
for slate. One of the most striking features of the slate exhibit was a mantel built of rough
slabs of dark red slate showing the cross fracture to have a fine satiny texture. This was
a copy of a mantel designed by Lord & Hewlet, of New York, and built in a Poultney, Vt., residence.
The main slate exhibit consisted of a stand supporting a slated roof, one side of which was
covered with unfading green slates one inch thick, such as were laid on Senator Clark's New
York residence. The other side was covered with rough thick slabs of unfading red. The sides
of the stand were covered with the regular trade slates in four sections--red, green, purple
and variegated. The uses of slate for construction purposes were shown by slabs and panels
on the upper part of the stand.

CEMENT

The cement exhibit was made by the Helderberg Cement Company, of Howes Cave. One side of the
exhibit stand was devoted to Portland and the other to natural cements. Barrels and bags of
finished cement formed the base of the structure on which were glass jars containing the rock
in its stages of manufacture, with a series of photographs of the works and of buildings of
cement. On account of the rapidly extending applications of cement a large section outside
of the building was set aside for exhibits of the uses of cement, and the exhibit was designed
mainly to show the manufacture, the materials used and the method of their treatment.

GYPSUM

Gypsum was shown by a fine series of specimens contributed by the United States Gypsum Company
from their mines in western New York. This material, like cement, is rapidly being adapted
for a variety of purposes, especially in the finish and ornamentation of buildings, and the
exhibit, encased in one of the square plate glass museum cases with its cut and polished cubes
of raw gypsum, selenite crystals, jars of stucco colors and examples of plaster casts, made
a very attractive exhibit. In another case there was exhibited gypsum in various forms from
other sources.

SALT

The salt exhibit was made up from a very complete set of specimens in sample jars taken from
the Museum collections, and a large number of packages from the manufacturers. The salt of
New York is obtained from the salina formation in the western part of the State. The industry
is of great importance. The deposits are described in State Museum Bulletin 11 by Dr. F. J.
H. Merrill. One of the most interesting varieties shown was the solar salt, which has been
made on the Onondaga Salt Reservation, Syracuse, since 1788. Blocks of rock salt were shown
from the Retsof and Livonia shafts.

Most of the salt produced, however, is from wells bored down through the rock salt beds, and
is pumped up in the form of brine and evaporated by artificial heat.

SOLVAY PROCESS COMPANY

The Solvay Process Company, of Syracuse, made a splendid display of soda ash. The plant of
this company uses an immense amount of salt which is obtained from the Tully districts and
carried by pipes to Solvay. The raw materials used were shown in the lower sections of two
cases especially constructed for the exhibit, which also held a set of barrels and other packages
in which the soda is shipped. In the upper sections were shown a series of large glass jars
with the various products. These were supplied with a series of labels completely describing
the process of manufacture and the chemical changes which take place. Above the case there
was a set of photographs of the works, illustrating the social life of the work-people employed
and the growth of the establishment.

USEFUL MINERALS

The exhibit of the useful minerals of the State was principally prepared by H. P. Whitlock
of the Museum staff. One case contained a set of the abrasive materials, the most important
of these being garnet, which is found in great quantities in the Adirondacks. Crude garnet
from several mines, the ground and cleaned garnet, and grades of garnet paper were shown. A
small millstone to represent the celebrated Esopus grit, emery ore from Peekskill, and quartz
and sand from many localities were also exhibited in this case. Another case was filled with
feldspar, mica and quartz, which usually occur associated with each other in the form of pegmetite
dikes in the crystalline rocks of the Adirondacks and the Highlands of the Hudson. These materials
are not as yet very extensively mined but an increasing demand for them is bringing to light
many promising localities.

GRAPHITE

Another valuable mineral which occurs in the State in great quantities is graphite. Specimens
of both the crude ore and manufactured graphite were exhibited. The deposits of this material
in the form of graphitic limestone cover miles of territory, but more satisfactory processes
for its concentration are needed to make it available for use, especially in the higher grades.

MUSEUM PUBLICATIONS

The Museum exhibited a set of its publications on geologic subjects, a set of published maps
and maps specially prepared for this exhibit to show the distribution of useful minerals, and
a number of enlarged photographs.

PALEONTOLOGY

The exhibit of the Department of Paleontology consisted of a set of its publications on the
paleontology of the State of New York--35 volumes--covering the period 1847-1904, and a set
of wing frames with many of the original drawings and plates used in their illustration.

SPECIAL FEATURES

The most striking feature of the exhibit was an immense slab of Potsdam sandstone from Bidwell's
Crossing, Clinton county, which was part of the premoidial or cambrian beach laid down about
the shores of the Adirondack continental nucleus. The slab shows the trails of animals crossing
in all directions, especially those known as clemactechnites, said by Dr. J. M. Clarke to have
been made by a a simple primitive type of mollusk. The slab, weighing over fifteen tons, was
moved in six sections and put together for exhibition.

Restorations in plaster of paris of the fossil crustaceous eurypterus and hughmilleria were
also exhibited.

CLAYS

The exhibition of clays and clay products was made by the State School of Ceramics, at Alfred,
N. Y., under the direction of Professor Charles F. Binns, and included some large vases, the
work of students.

The State of New York has long held an important place in the brick trade on account of its
unlimited quantities of clay along the Hudson river, which have not only supplied much of the
brick used for building in New York city, but bricks have been shipped from this source long
distances by water. The finer varieties of clay have not been worked to any extent except on
Long Island, but other conditions have resulted in the establishment of potteries at Brooklyn,
Syracuse and other points, using almost exclusively clays imported into the State. The beds
of feldspar and flint now being exploited in the Adirondacks will materially help to put this
class of potteries on a firmer basis.

The center of the exhibition space was devoted to a pagoda designed to show the kinds of brick
manufactured in the principal localities. The roof afforded an excellent place to exhibit earthenware
tiling.

The General Electric Company exhibited a case of insulators, many of them of special types,
from their Schenectady pottery. Insulators were also exhibited by Pass & Seymour, of Syracuse,
and the Empire China Works, of Brooklyn.

PETROLEUM

The petroleum exhibit was made under the general direction of Secretary and Chief Executive
Officer Charles A. Ball. An extensive series of crude and refined oils and by-products occupied
a case showing on both sides. On this was installed a model of a tower and drilling machinery
such as is used in sinking oil wells. The records printed on the labels furnished data which
made an important addition to our previous knowledge of the New York oil fields.

In addition to those heretofore mentioned, the following gentlemen assisted as indicated in
the preparation of the exhibit, and are entitled to no small credit for the valuable assistance
rendered.

E. E. Engelhardt was engaged in the acquisition of the salt exhibits.

J. S. Bellamy collected the petroleum exhibit under the immediate direction of Secretary Ball.

C. F. Binns collected the exhibit of clay products under the immediate direction of the State
Commission.

W. C. Richard assisted in installing the exhibit.

Frederick Braun installed the slab of Potsdam sandstone.

The following members of the staff of the State Museum also assisted: H.S. Mattimore, C.A.
Trask, E.C. Kenny, D.D. Luther and Joseph Morje.

Catalogue of Exhibitors in the Department of Mines and Metallurgy, with the Award, if Any,
Received by Each

GROUP ONE HUNDRED SIXTEEN
Minerals and Stones
Adirondack Pyrites Co., Gouverneur
    Pyrites: crude and concentrates
Alfred Clay Co., Alfred Station
    Brick
    Tile
Algonquin Red Slate Co., Truthville
    Mineral paint
Alps Oil Co., Alma
    Crude oil
Applebee & Baldwin, Scio
    Crude oil
Arnold Mining Co. Bronze medal
    Iron ores
Attica Brick and Tile Co., Attica
    Brick
Atwood & McEwen, Andover
    Crude oil
J.J. Barron, Three Mile Bay
    Limestone (Trenton)
H.H. Barton Son & Co., North Creek and Minerva
    Garnet and garnet paper
Herman Behr & Co., North River. Silver medal
    Garnet and garnet paper
Milo M. Belding, Gouverneur
    Marble
Bellamy & Elliott, Scio
    Crude oil
Frank Bennett, Staten Island
    Diabase
J. B. Berridge, Hudson
    Limestone (Helderberg)
H. Boice & Co., Rondout
    Bluestone
A. F. Bouton, Roxbury
    Red sandstone (Catskill)
Burhans & Brainard, Saugerties
    Bluestone
Eugene Campbell, New Baltimore
    Limestone (Helderberg)
Canton Marble Quarry, Canton
    Marble
B. & J. Carpenter, Lockport
    Limestone (Niagara)
Celadon Roofing Co., Alfred
    Tile roofs
Church & Bradley, Alma
    Crude oil
Church & Co., Wellsville
    Crude oil
Clark, Tracey & Co., West Union
    Crude oil
Conner Paint Mfg. Co
    Mineral paint
Consolidated Wheatland Plaster Co., Wheatland
    Gypsum
    Land plaster
Corning Brick, Tile & Terra Cotta Co., Corning
    Brick
Delaware Milling, Mining & Mfg. Co., Roxbury
    Mineral paint
Albert Dibble, Belvidere
    Bluestone
Joseph Dixon Crucible Co., Ticonderoga
    Graphite
Duford & Son, Chaumont
    Limestone (Trenton)
Ellenville Zinc Co., Ellenville
    Lead and zinc: zinc blende, chalcopyrite, galena, lead, zinc
    and copper concentrates
Empire China Works, Brooklyn
    Insulators
Empire Gas and Fuel Co., Ltd., Willink
    Crude oil
Empire Marble Co., Gouverneur
    Marble
Empire Salt Co. Silver medal
    Salt
Extra Dark Marble Co., Gouverneur
    Marble
Foery & Kastner, Rochester
    Limestone
D. R. & H. Fogelsinger, Buffalo
    Limestone (Onondaga)
Franchot Bros., Scio
    Crude oil
R. Forsyth, Grindstone Island
    Granite
General Electric Co., Schenectady. Gold medal
    Insulators
Genesee Salt Co., Pifford
    Salt
Glens Falls Co., Glens Falls
    Limestone (Trenton)
Adelbert Gordon, Batchellerville
    Mica
    Feldspar
Gouverneur Garnet Co., Gouverneur
    Garnet
J. B. Gray, Geneseo
    Oil sand and crude oil
Ezra Grinnell, Port Gibson
    Plaster of paris
    Land plaster
Grumply Oil Co., Rexville
    Crude oil
Helderberg Cement Co., Howes Cave. Gold medal
    Cement
D. C. Hewitt, Amsterdam
    Limestone (Calciferous)
High Falls Pyrites Co., Canton
    Pyrites
Horan Bros., Medina
    Sandstone
Horseheads Brick Co., Horseheads
    Brick
L. W. Hotchkiss, Lewiston
    Sandstone (Medina)
Hudson River Bluestone Co., Ulster county. Silver medal
    Bluestone
International Graphite Co., Ticonderoga
    Graphite
International Pulp Co., Gouverneur
    Talc
International Salt Co., Ithaca
    Salt
Interstate Conduit & Brick Co., Ithaca
    Brick
Jamestown Shale Paving Brick Co., Jamestown
    Brick
Jewettville Pressed Brick & Paving Co., Jewettville
    Brick
R. Jones, Prospect
    Graphite
J. F. Kilgour, Lordville
    Bluestone
F. H. Kinkel, Bedford
    Feldspar
    Quartz
A. Gracie King, Garrisons
    Granite
Francis Larkins, Ossining
    Granite
B. B. Mason, Keeseville
    Norite
Masterton & Hall, Tuckahoe
    Marble
H. H. Mathews Consolidated Slate Co., Washington county. Gold
      medal
    Slate
G. J. McClure, Ithaca
    Bluestone
J. H. McCutcheon, Lancaster
    Brick
James McEwen, Wellsville
    Crude oil
J. C. & A. McMurray, Olean
    Brick
Medina Quarry Co., New York city. Silver medal
    Sandstone
M. Mervine, Whitesville
    Crude oil
Morris & Strobel, LeRoy
    Limestone
Mount Eve Granite Co., Mount Eve
    Granite
Mutual Gas Co., Andover
    Crude oil
National Salt Co., Ithaca and Warsaw. Silver medal
    Salt
National Wall Plaster Co., Fayetteville
    Crude gypsum
    Plaster of paris
    Land plaster
James Nevins & Son, Walton
    Bluestone
New York State School of Clay Working and Ceramics, Alfred
Silver medal
    Clay products
New York Hydraulic Pressed Brick Co., Canandaigua
    Brick
New York State Museum, Department of Paleontology. Grand
prize
    General Exhibit in Paleontology, including publications, slab
      of Potsdam sandstone, restorations of fossils
New York State Museum. Bronze medal
    Plaster Model of Tilly Foster Iron Mine
New York State Museum. Gold medal
    Publications on Geology, Mineralogy, Topography, Quarrying,
      Mining, Metallurgy, Development of Water Resources, etc.
New York State Museum. Gold medal
    Collection of Minerals and Building Stones
New York State Museum. Silver medal
    Ten Geologic maps of the State of New York and special
      parts thereof
    Relief Map of New York
    Hypsometric Map of New York
    Road Map of New York
    Sixty-four photographic enlargements illustrating New York
      State mineral resources and other geological features; size,
      11 by 14 inches
New York State Museum. Silver medal
    Collective Exhibit
Northern New York Marble Co., Gouverneur
    Marble
North River Garnet Co., Ticonderoga
    Garnet
Oakfield Plaster Manufacturing Co., Oakfield
    Gypsum
Onondaga Coarse Salt Association, Syracuse. Silver medal
    Solar salt
Ontario Talc Co., Gouverneur
    Talc
D. Parmatir, Potsdam
    Sandstone
Pass & Seymour, Syracuse
    Insulators
Peter Pitkin's Sons, Portageville
    Bluestone
Potsdam Sandstone Co., Potsdam
    Sandstone
A. L. Pritchard, Pleasantville
    Marble
Queen City Brick Co., Buffalo
    Brick
Quick & Co., Alma
    Crude oil
Remington Salt Co., Syracuse
    Salt
Retsof Mining Co., Retsof and Livonia
    Rock salt
W. Rielly, Cobleskill
    Limestone
E. P. Roberts, Cortland
    Granite
Robins Conveying Belt Co., New York city
    Belts and conveyor on separator
Rochester Brick & Tile Co., Rochester
    Brick
Rossie Metallic Paint Co., Rossie
    Mineral paint
Rudolph & Dotterwich, Allegany
    Crude oil
D. G. Scholten, Gouverneur. Bronze medal
    Marble
Scio Oil & Gas Co., Scio
    Oil sand and crude oil
C. R. Scott, Alma
    Crude oil
Scott, Fuller & Fay, South Bolivar
    Crude oil
George W. Searles, White Lead Lake, Herkimer county
    Infusorial earth
J. Shanahan, Tribes Hill
    Limestone
J. Shear & Co., Schenectady
    Sandstone
Solvay Process Co., Syracuse. Grand prize
    Salt products
Solvay Process Co., Syracuse
    Limestone (Onondaga)
South Dover Marble Co., South Dover
    Marble
St. Lawrence Marble Co., Gouverneur
    Marble
A. D. Symonds, Elmira
    Bluestone
The Tanite Co., Cortland
    Emery
Evan T. Thomas, Prospect
    Limestone
F. Thomas, Troy
    Mineral paint
Loren Thomas, Waterloo
    Marble
James Thornton Estate, Alma
    Crude oil
Ticonderoga Graphite Co., Ticonderoga
    Graphite
Tonawanda Brick Co., Tonawanda
    Brick
W. B. Underhill Brick Co., Croton Landing
    Sand
Union Salt Co., Watkins
    Salt
Union Talc Co., Gouverneur
    Talc
United States Gypsum Co., Oakfield. Grand prize
    Gypsum
    Statuary of plaster of paris
United States Talc Co., Gouverneur
    Talc
James Van Etten, Granite
    Millstones
Vosburg Oil Co., Bolivar
    Oil sand and crude oil
Vossler Bros & Quick, Alma
    Crude oil
Warsaw Bluestone Co., Rock Glen
    Bluestone
Watertown Marble Co., Watertown
    Marble
Watkins Salt Co., Watkins
    Salt
Wells & Hall, Ogdensburg
    Mineral paint
Wetherill Separating Co., New York city. Gold medal
    Wetherill magnetic separator, Type E, No. 3, working on
      New York magnetic iron ores
L. H. White, Saratoga Springs
    Granite
White Crystal Marble Co., Gouverneur
    Marble Ashler
Williamson & Co., Northport
    Sand
Witherbee, Sherman & Co., Mineville. Silver medal
    Iron ore
Worcester Salt Co., Silver Springs. Silver medal
    Salt

CHAPTER XV

Social Economy Exhibit and Schedule of Awards

SOCIAL ECONOMY EXHIBIT By DELANCEY M. ELLIS Director of Education and Social Economy

The Department of Social Economy being closely allied with the Department of Education, and
its exhibit being installed in the Palace of Education, it was placed under the general charge
of the Director of Education, whose title was changed to the Director of Education and Social
Economy.

PREPARATION OF EXHIBITS

All of the exhibits of State Departments were prepared by the departments contributing them,
and in the case of the State Commission in Lunacy and the State Board of Charities the exhibits
were installed by a special representative. This also is true of the exhibit of the State Department
of Prisons, which required the constant attendance of an expert to demonstrate its workings.

During the latter part of the Exposition period William T. Arms, an attache of the State building,
was detailed to the Department of Social Economy, and dividing his time among the several State
exhibits, added materially to the pleasure and knowledge of visitors concerning New York's
institutions.

PLAN OF ARRANGEMENT

The Exposition authorities determined that the exhibits in the Department of Social Economy
should be collective; that is, that all the work in the Department of Charities and Corrections
from whatever source should be installed together; the same to be true of general betterment
movements, hygiene, municipal improvement, etc. This plan precluded the installation of the
State's exhibit in this department in one place with a dignified installation, as in the other
exhibit departments, and made necessary the placing of the exhibit in several different parts
of the building according to the subdivision of the classification under which it fell. Perhaps
from the standard of general utility the arrangement was all that could be desired, but from
the standpoint of the State it is of doubtful value, as such a disposition of the State's exhibit
made no single part of it of any considerable size, nor as impressive as had the State's work
in this department been shown together.

No State in the Union approaches the Empire State in its progressive policy in the care of
the insane, the destitute and delinquents, in the solving of labor and excise problems, and
had the exhibit in this department been installed together, a most effective and striking lesson
would have been taught.

STATE COMMISSION IN LUNACY

The exhibit of the New York State Commission in Lunacy was the most suggestive and comprehensive
of any shown in the Department for the Insane, and was designed primarily to show the difference
between the ancient and modern methods of treating these unfortunates. Two rooms were shown,
the first of which represented the primitive methods adopted for treating insanity. The room
was barren, dark and not over clean. At the front was shown one of the old peep-doors taken
from the Utica Asylum. It was of massive construction and contained a small aperture covered
by a heavy wooden blind, through which the attendant could observe the doings of the patient,
or, more properly speaking, the prisoner. Within stood one of the so-called Utica cribs built
of heavy wood, over which was a cover of wooden bars. In this crib the patient was obliged
to remain in a recumbent position, the cover closed and locked. Near by stood a restraining
chair, a whirling chair, a straight jacket and shackles, all representing ancient methods of
"quieting" the victims of the dread disease.

Adjoining was an airy room, clean and inviting, made cheerful by growing plants and attractive
furniture, with every modern appliance for the care of an invalid, resembling closely a room
of the better class in a general hospital. There was an entire absence of any kind of restraint.
A neat iron bedstead, rocking chairs, invalid table, wash stand, book case with books, and
in fact every comfort and convenience was at hand. In this room were also shown the uniforms
worn by the nurses and attendants in the State hospitals for the insane, and a series of reference
books upon the subject of insanity, The exhibit was supplemented by a series of handsome photographs
completely illustrating the various State hospitals for the insane, the daily life of the inmates
and the expert attention which they receive.

Glass cases contained a large amount of industrial work done by the inmates. This chiefly consisted
of sewing and embroidery. A feature of the exhibit was an oak cabinet containing a series of
specimens showing cross sections of the brain prepared at the Pathological Institute in New
York city. It was of decided scientific value and interest. Near by was a miniature tent hospital,
a complete model of the hospital for the care of insane patients afflicted with tuberculosis
which is now in operation at the Manhattan State Hospital, Ward's Island, N. Y.

A striking feature was a copy of the famous oil painting, "Dr. Pinel Freeing the Insane at
La Salpetriere after the close of the French Revolution." It most graphically told the story
of the complete revolution in treating this dread disease.

STATE BOARD OF CHARITIES

The exhibit of the State Board of Charities was installed under four different subdivisions
of Group 139 (Charities and Corrections) of the official classification.

1. Class 784. Destitute, neglected and delinquent children 2. Class 785. Institutional care
of destitute adults 3. Class 787. Hospitals, dispensaries and nursing 4. Class 789. Treatment
of criminals

The exhibit of the Board in the department for the care of juvenile delinquents was comprehensive
in its make up. Photographs of the various State institutions devoted to this purpose were
shown, clearly demonstrating the superiority of these institutions as to buildings, equipment
and maintenance. These photographs were supplemented by an exhibit of industrial work of the
inmates.

The State Industrial School at Rochester and the House of Refuge for Juvenile Delinquents at
Randall's Island both contributed some exceptional work in wood carving and wrought iron.

In addition to this were shown the uniforms worn in the different institutions and also specimens
of the scholastic work which the children are doing.

The State Board of Charities also assumed the responsibility for, and partially prepared, the
exhibit of various charity organization societies within the State, by far the most elaborate
of which was the exhibit of the Charity Organization Society of New York city. By means of
photographs, administrative blanks and reports the great work which this organization is doing
was clearly revealed.

The work of the Board in the care of destitute adults was demonstrated by means of a complete
set of photographs of the county alms houses of the State of New York. From two to four pictures
of each institution were shown, giving a very clear idea of their scope and equipment. These
photographs were supplemented by a statistical blank containing valuable data as to the value
of the plant, number of employees, of inmates, and such other information as would be useful
to the public.

The exhibit of the work of the Board as related to general hospitals of the State consisted
largely of a series of photographs, supplemented by valuable statistical matter.

The Board also prepared an exhibit from the various State prisons, the industrial work of which
is under the jurisdiction of the State Prison Commission. This exhibit contained photographs
of the members of the State Prison Commission, photographs showing the interiors of the different
prisons, reports, etc., and revealed the fact that the Empire State is in the front rank in
inaugurating reform movements looking toward the health, safety and moral uplift of the inmates.

STATE DEPARTMENT OF PRISONS

The exhibit of the State Department of Prisons probably received as much attention from the
public as any single State exhibit prepared. It consisted of a demonstration of the workings
of the Bertillon and finger print systems for the identification of criminals. An ornate installation
of solid oak, handsomely carved, was built by the inmates of the State Prison at Ossining,
and was carried to St. Louis and erected upon the space assigned to this department.

Throughout the season Captain J.H. Parke, an expert on the finger print system, and E.E. Davis,
Jr., an expert on the Bertillon system, were present to demonstrate the workings of these systems
to Exposition visitors. But few are familiar with the operations of the Bertillon system, and
the finger print system is as yet practically unknown.

New York State is the pioneer State of the Union in putting into practical operation the finger
print system for the identification of criminals, and it is the only State in which it is at
present in use. Although there is a National Bureau of Identification at Washington, D. C.,
which is conducted through the co-operation of the chiefs of police of many of the large cities
throughout the country, it cannot be said to be a department of the United States government,
and its system is far from as perfect as that of the Empire State.

STATE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

Probably in no State of the Union does there exist a labor department organized upon such extensive
lines as is that of the State of New York. Recently three bureaus were merged forming the State
Department of Labor. These were the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Board of Mediation and
Arbitration and the office of the Factory Inspector. The exhibit consisted of a complete set
of reports of these various bureaus, and of the department erected therefrom, supplemented
with a series of graphic charts bearing upon every phase of the labor question, and comparing
the economic condition of the Empire State with that of other States of the Union and various
foreign countries. The exhibit was a valuable sociological contribution. An especially strong
feature was four monographs, entitled "Typical Employers' Welfare Institutions in New York,"
"Labor Legislation in New York," "The Work of the State Department of Labor," and "The Growth
of Industry in New York." These were printed in such quantities as to permit of their distribution
among visitors to the Exposition. The graphic charts were reproduced in half-tones and inserted
in the monographs.

The exhibit was carefully studied by students of sociology generally as it is recognized that
the State of New York speaks with a voice of authority upon questions of this nature.

STATE DEPARTMENT OF EXCISE

The question of controlling the liquor traffic is one of lively interest throughout the civilized
world. The exhibit of the State Department of Excise was so prepared as to clearly demonstrate
the superiority of the system of State control in licensing this traffic as administered under
the New York State Liquor Tax Law. The exhibit consisted of a series of graphic charts showing
this statute's moral benefit to the people of the State by reducing the number of drinking
places more than twenty per cent and increasing the amount collected from liquor licenses from
about three million to about eighteen million dollars annually. By means of a key, which accompanied
the charts, the visitor was enabled easily to trace the development of the law since its first
enactment and to see the efficiency with which it is enforced.

STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH

The exhibit of the State Department of Health was made up of a complete set of reports of the
department, supplemented by administrative blanks used in the enforcement of the Health Law,
and photographs showing the offices of the department, the anti-toxin laboratory and other
features of the department's work. A full set of blanks used in the collection of vital statistics
and sample specimens of anti-toxin and anti-tetanus, which are distributed without charge by
the department, completed the exhibit.

CRAIG COLONY

The exhibit of Craig Colony consisted of a model designed to show the ideal institution for
the care, education and treatment of epileptics, towards which Craig Colony in its development
is working. The model was skillfully constructed and cost considerably more than the appropriation
made by the Commission, the balance being paid from private sources.

MISCELLANEOUS EXHIBITS

The New York State exhibit in the Department of Social Economy also contained an exhibit of
the Woman's Institute at Yonkers, a philanthropic organization providing for the care of needy
families in their homes and promoting several general betterment movements. The exhibit consisted
of photographs, blanks and statistics bearing upon the work of the organization.

Close by was an exhibit of the George Junior Republic at Freeville, a unique institution for
the care of juvenile delinquents and carried on along the lines of a civic organization. The
exhibit consisted of interesting photographs showing the buildings and the plant, also specimens
of blanks and samples of the money in use in the institution, and a general account of the
work since its inception.

One of the most interesting exhibits was that of the Bank of New York, New York city, which
is one of the oldest banks in the United States, having been organized in 1784 and having since
enjoyed a most prosperous career. In addition to photographs, original by-laws and figures
concerning the present condition of the bank, was exhibited the first ledger of the institution,
which contained the accounts of Aaron Burr, Robert R. Livingston and other noted contemporaries.
In addition were shown requisitions of Alexander Hamilton, then Secretary of the Treasury,
for loans to the government, and other interesting historical documents.

The State Library prepared and exhibited an interesting compilation of sociological legislation
and literature which was designed to show the advanced work done by the library in that direction.

Exhibits were also in place from the Church Association for the Advancement of the Interests
of Labor; the Eastman Kodak Company, of Rochester, N. Y.; the Blacksmith and Wheelwright; the
Sugar Trade Review, and a volume published by the Mercantile Publishing Company containing
a directory of manufacturers and valuable trade statistics.

Catalogue of Exhibitors in the Department of Social Economy, Arranged by Groups, with the Awards,
if Any, Received by Each

GROUP ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-NINE

Study and Investigation of Social and Economic Conditions

Blacksmith and Wheelwright, New York city. Silver medal
    Publication
Church Association for the Advancement of the Interests of Labor,
New York city. Silver medal
    Photographs
    Statistics
Division of Sociology, New York State Library, Albany. Silver medal
    A comparative index of sociological legislation and literature
Manufacturers' Publishing Company, New York city. Silver medal
    Directory of Manufacturers
Willett & Gray, New York city. Silver medal
    Sugar Review

The following awards were made to exhibits not a part of the collective State Exhibit:

American Book Company, New York city. Grand prize
    Text books on economics
R. G. Dunn & Company, Commercial Agency New York city. Silver medal
    Statistics
    Photographs
Richmond C. Hill, secretary Board of Trade, Buffalo. Silver medal

GROUP ONE HUNDRED THIRTY

Economic Resources and Organization

Charles Hemstreet, New York city. Silver medal

GROUP ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-ONE

State Regulation of Industry and Labor

State Department of Labor, Albany. Grand prize
    Graphic charts
    Reports
    Monographs

The following award was made to an exhibit not a part of the collective State Exhibit:

American Institute of Social Service, New York city. Grand prize
    Charts
    Printed matter
    Garments.
Bank of New York, New York city. Grand prize
    Historical ledger and documents
    Statistics
    By-laws
    Pictures

GROUP ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-SIX

Housing of the Working Classes

The following awards were made to exhibits not a part of the collective State Exhibit:

J. B. & J. M. Cornell Company. Gold medal
Model Household Nursery. Gold medal
New York city, tenement house department, Lawrence Veiller,
      collaborator. Grand prize
Niagara Development Company, New York city. Silver medal

GROUP ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-SEVEN

The Liquor Question

State Department of Excise, Albany. Grand prize
    Graphic charts
    Statistics

GROUP ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-EIGHT

General Betterment Movements

National Consumers' League, New York city. Gold medal
    Charts
    Printed matter
    Garments
New York Training School for Deaconesses. Bronze medal
    Photographs
    Prospectus
People's Institute, New York city. Silver medal
    Photographs
    Prospectus
    Reports
Woman's Institute, Yonkers. Grand prize
General Electric Company, Schenectady. Gold medal
Institutional charities, collective exhibit. Gold medal
Prepared and installed by American Institute of Social Service
    St. Bartholomew's Church, New York city
    St. George's Church, New York city
    Washington Square M. E. Church, New York city
    Church of the Ascension, New York city
    Marcy Avenue Church, Brooklyn
    Westminster Presbyterian Church, Buffalo
Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society, Albany. Gold medal
Siegel-Cooper Company, New York city. Gold medal
J. H. Williams Company, Brooklyn. Silver medal

The following awards were made to collaborators:

Dr. William H. Tolman, New York city. Gold medal Dr. William W. Stillman, Albany. Gold medal
Mrs. Florence Kelly, New York city. Gold medal

GROUP ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-NINE

Charities and Corrections

Brooklyn Bureau of Charities. Gold medal
    Photographs
    Statistics
Buffalo Charity Organization Society. Gold medal
    Photographs
    Statistics
Charity Organization Society, New York city. Grand prize
    Reports
    Charts
    Statistics
    Photographs
    Maps
    Administrative blanks
Cornell University, Department of Philanthropy and Finance, Ithaca.
  Gold medal
    Graphic charts
Craig Colony for Epileptics, Sonyea. Gold medal
    Model of institution
George Junior Republic, Freeville. Gold medal
    Photographs
    Charts
    Statistics
    Reports
Manhattan State Hospital East, Ward's Island, New York city.
Gold medal
    Photographs
    Statistics
Newburg Associated Charities. Silver medal
    Photographs
    Statistics
New York City United Hebrew Charities. Gold medal
    Photographs
    Statistics
State Board of Charities, Albany. Grand prize
    Reports
    Statistics
    Photographs
    Industrial work
    Administrative blanks
State Commission in Lunacy, Albany. Grand prize
    Rooms showing ancient and modern treatment of insane
      patients
    Reports
    Industrial work
    Model tuberculosis hospital
    Pathological specimens
State Commission of Prisons, Albany. Gold medal
    Photographs
    Reports
    Statistics
State Prison Department, Albany. Gold
  medal
T. E. McGarr, Secretary State Commission in Lunacy. Gold medal
Edward T. Devine, New York city. Gold medal

The following awards were made to exhibits not a part of the collective State Exhibit:

Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, Brooklyn.
    Silver medal
Asylum of the Sisters of St. Dominie, New York city. Silver medal
Brooklyn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, Brooklyn.
    Silver medal
Catholic Home Bureau, New York city. Gold medal
Children's Aid Society, New York city. Gold medal
Committee on the Prevention of Tuberculosis, New York city. Grand prize
Department of Finance, New York city. Grand prize
Department of Public Charities, New York city. Gold medal
Hebrew Sheltering Guardian Society, New York city. Gold medal
Rev. Thomas L. Kinkead, Peekskill. Gold medal
Lincoln Hospital and Home, New York city. Silver medal
Long Island College Hospital, New York city. Silver medal
Missionary Sisters Third Order of St. Frances, New York city. Gold medal
Mission of the Immaculate Virgin for the Protection of Homeless and
    Destitute Children, New York city. Silver medal
Mount Sinai Hospital for Children, New York city. Silver medal
New York Catholic Protectory, New York city. Gold medal
New York Charity Organization Society, New York city. Grand prize
New York Foundling Hospital, New York city. Silver medal
New York Juvenile Asylum, New York city. Gold medal
New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, New York
    city. Gold medal
Orphans' Home, Brooklyn. Silver medal
St. Vincent's Hospital, New York city. Silver medal
Seton Hospital, New York city. Silver medal
Sisters of Mercy, Gabriels. Gold medal

The following awards were made to collaborators:

Miss Lillian Brandt, New York city. Gold medal Homer Folks, New York city. Gold medal Dr. D.
C. Potter, New York city. Gold medal

GROUP ONE HUNDRED FORTY

Public Health.

Rochester, City Department of Health. Gold medal
    Charts
    Statistics
    Photographs
State Department of Health, Albany. Grand prize
    Reports
    Administrative blanks
    Photographs
    Statistics

The following award was made to a collaborator:

Dr. George Goler, Health Officer, Rochester. Grand prize
Dr. Simon Baruch, New York city. Silver medal
Department of Health of the City of New York. Grand prize
Allen Hazen, New York city. Grand prize
Kny-Scheerer Company, Department of Natural Science, New York city. Gold
      medal
Sanitorium Gabriel, Saranac Lake. Gold medal

The following awards were made to collaborators:

Dr. E. L. Trudeau, Saranac Lake. Grand prize
Herman Biggs, M. D., New York city. Silver medal
    Photographs illustrating municipal conditions
City of New York, Art Commission. Gold medal
City of New York, Aqueduct Commission and Department of Water
    Supply. Gold medal
City of New York, Children's School Farm. Silver medal
City of New York, Department of Street Cleaning. Grand prize

The following awards were made to collaborators:

Mrs. Ruth Ashley Hirschfield. Gold medal
    Model playground and nursery
George W. Waring in recognition of services in the establishment
    of the system used in the Department of Street Cleaning, New
    York city. Gold medal

THE FOLLOWING IS A RECAPITULATION OF THE AWARDS MADE     TO THE STATE OF NEW YORK IN THE DEPARTMENT
OF SOCIAL     ECONOMY.

Grand Prize.

Group 129.................. 1
Group 131.................. 1
Group 132.................. 1
Group 135.................. 2
Group 136.................. 1
Group 137.................. 1
Group 138.................. 1
Group 139.................. 7
Group 139, Collaborators... 1
Group 140.................. 4
Group 140, Collaborators... 1
Group 141.................. 1
                          ---
Total..................... 22
                          ===
Gold Medal.

Group 131.................. 1
Group 136.................. 2
Group 138................. 10
Group 138, Collaborators... 3
Group 139................. 18
Group 139, Collaborators... 5
Group 140.................. 5
Group 140, Collaborators... 2
Group 141.................. 4
                          ---
Total..................... 50
                          ===

Silver Medal.

Group 129         7
Group 130         1
Group 136         1
Group 138         5
Group 139        13
Group 140         1
Group 141         2
                ----
  Total.         30
                ====
Bronze Medal.

Group 138         1
                 ===

Grand prizes.    22
Gold medals.     50
Silver medals.   30
Bronze medal.     1
               -----
  Grand total.  103
               =====

CHAPTER XVI

Financial Statement

EXPENDITURES

GENERAL ADMINISTRATION

Secretary and Chief Executive Officer--
  salary (33 months) ----------------------------  $10,449 17
Secretary and Chief Executive Officer--
  traveling expenses and maintenance at
  St. Louis -------------------------------------    6,528 08
Clerk hire, assistants, stenographers, etc.------    7,143 00
Rent of New York office -------------------------      450 00
Maintenance of Albany office after close of
  Exposition ------------------------------------      550 80
Office fixtures, desks, tables, chairs, etc.           571 19
General traveling expenses of employees
  and other officials and expense of
  maintenance at St. Louis ----------------------    3,367 38
Printing and engraving, stationery and
  office supplies, including all engraving
  for functions given by Commission -------------    4,461 98
Express, freight, cartage, telephone (local
  and long distance) and telegraph --------------    1,481 65
Petty cash, including postage, car fares,
  messenger service, sundry supplies, etc . -----    3,615 07
Railroad and hotel expenses of individual
  members of Commission for attendance
  at meetings in New York and St. Louis:
      Edward H. Harriman ---------------  $321 00
      William Berri --------------------   552 45
      Edward Lyman Bill ----------------   828 10
      Louis Stern ----------------------   $97 80
      James H. Callanan ---------------- 1,591 38
      Frederick R. Green ---------------   768 55
      Frank S. McGraw ------------------   880 92
      Mrs. Norman E. Mack -------------- 1,592 45
      John K. Stewart ------------------ 1,013 39
      John C. Woodbury ----------------- 1,087 40
      John Young ----------------------- 1,928 75
      Cyrus E. Jones -------------------    35 50
                                        ---------  $10,697 69
Railroad, hotel and other expenses of the
  Commission attending the dedication ceremonies
  at St. Louis, April 30, 1903 ------------------    1,722 80
Railroad, hotel and other expenses of the
  Commission for meeting held at St. Louis
  in December, 1903 -----------------------------    1,260 50
Miscellaneous expenditures not included in
  above -----------------------------------------    1,565 33
                                                  -----------
Total expenditures ------------------------------  $53,864 64
                                                  ===========
Receipts:
    Rebate from Planters' Hotel -----------------      $60 00
    Rebate on insurance -------------------------      369 81
    Interest on deposits of funds
      in treasurer's hands ----------------------      403 66
                                                  -----------
Total receipts ----------------------------------     $833 47
                                                  ===========

NEW YORK STATE BUILDING, CONSTRUCTION

Caldwell & Drake, contract for construction
  of building and extras ------------------------  $61,634 85
Embellishment of building, models for
  Quadrigae, statuary, coat of arms, etc.,
  and mural decorations -------------------------   11,133 64
Enlarging and placing sculpture -----------------    5,000 00
Organ case --------------------------------------   $3,500 00
Furniture, carpets, shades, screens, etc. -------   19,750 55
Electroliers, electric fixtures, etc. -----------    5,077 73
Appointments, watchman's time clock, fire
  protection, refrigerators, gas logs, electric
  heaters, etc. ---------------------------------    1,189 90
Landscape gardening -----------------------------    3,694 30
Architects' fees --------------------------------    5,128 70
Architects' expenses ----------------------------    1,783 90
Insurance on building ---------------------------    2,444 20
                                                 ------------
Total expenditures ------------------------------ $120,337 77
                                                 ============
Receipts:
  Sale of building and furniture ----------------   $7,025 00
                                                 ============

NEW YORK STATE BUILDING, MAINTENANCE

Superintendent--salary --------------------------   $1,225 00
Hostesses and matrons--salaries -----------------    3,232 50
Attendants, postmaster, watchman, porters
  --salaries ------------------------------------   20,696 59
Janitor service ---------------------------------    2,682 50
Allowance for maintenance of superintendent,
   hostesses, matrons, etc., at St. Louis -------    1,902 10
Equipment, including table and bed linen,
  dishes, light renewals, canopies, electric
  fans, etc. ------------------------------------    4,486 91
General supplies, renewals, livery, cartage,
  baggage transfer and laundry ------------------    7,721 29
Light and water ---------------------------------    4,974 90
Caterers' bills, floral decorations, music,
  illuminations and other incidentals for all
  functions given by the Commission, including
  New York Week, Dedication Day and
  other occasions elsewhere enumerated,
  also for restaurant charges of all members
  of the Commission while at the Exposition -----  $17,444 79
Expenses of the Governor, his staff and
  legislative party, including transportation
  and hotel bills in connection with New
  York Week observance --------------------------    3,982 62
Special illumination of building in honor of
  visit of President Roosevelt ------------------      250 00
Total expenditures ------------------------------  $68,599 20
                                                  -----------
Receipts
  Rebate on gas, livery and safe ----------------      $70 00
                                                  ===========

EDUCATION

Director of Education and Social Economy
  --salary (20 1/2 months.) ---------------------   $3,422 20
Traveling expenses of Director, Advisory
  Committee and employees -----------------------    1,815 93
Clerks, stenographer, attendants, draughtsman
  and other employees--salaries -----------------    4,403 98
Allowance for maintenance of Director and
  attendants at St. Louis -----------------------    2,719 74
Printing and stationery and binding of
  exhibit work ----------------------------------      807 01
Supplies--material for preparation of
  exhibit ---------------------------------------    1,690 00
Installation-booth, facades, cabinets,
  counters, cases and appointments --------------    7,096 52
Express, freight, cartage, postage, telephone
  and telegraph ---------------------------------      793 73
                                                  -----------
Total expenditures-------------------------------  $22,749 11
                                                  ===========
Receipts:
Amounts received from cities, etc., on
  account of binding exhibit material,
  sale of installation and appointments               $666 50
                                                   ==========

FINE ARTS

Employees--salaries -----------------------------     $280 00
Storage of art works, packing, handling,
  repairing, etc. -------------------------------    3,129 09
Express, cartage, etc., to and from St. Louis        3,139 04
Insurance on art works --------------------------    2,423 00
Printing and supplies ---------------------------      173 26
Postage, telephone and telegraph and
  miscellaneous expenditures --------------------      155 56
                                                  -----------
Total expenditures ------------------------------   $9,299 95
                                                  ===========
Receipts:
  Rebate on insurance ---------------------------      $42 13
                                                  ===========

AGRICULTURE AND LIVE STOCK

Superintendent--salary (19 months)      ---------   $3,166 55
Superintendent--traveling expenses --------------    1,115 87
Allowance for maintenance of Superintendent
  and assistants at St. Louis -------------------    1,380 00
Assistants, attendants, laborers, etc.--
  salaries --------------------------------------    5,579 54
Miscellaneous traveling expenses for
  collecting exhibit material -------------------    1,120 93
Cost of grain, vegetables and dairy products
  for exhibit -----------------------------------    2,425 92
Installation--booth, counters, cabinets,
  show cases, etc. ------------------------------    4,110 44
Refrigerator show cases for butter and
  cheese ----------------------------------------    1,500 00
Printing and stationery -------------------------       42 45
Express, freight, cartage, including on live
  stock for exhibit, cold storage, telephone,
  telegraph and postage -------------------------   $2,230 62
Miscellaneous supplies --------------------------      612 13
Total expenditures ------------------------------  $23,285 45
Receipts:
  Sale of exhibit material ----------------------     $592 10

HORTICULTURE

Superintendent--salary (18 1/2 months) ----------   $3,111 06
Superintendent--traveling expenses --------------    1,021 81
Assistants, attendants, stenographer, labor,
  etc. ------------------------------------------    4,631 31
Allowance for maintenance of Superintendent
  and assistants at St. Louis -------------------    1,840 00
Miscellaneous traveling expenses, collecting
  fruit -----------------------------------------      858 90
Cost of fruit for exhibit, cold storage, etc.        2,579 81
Installation--booth, facade, tables, cases,
  etc. ------------------------------------------    3,711 26
Office rent, supplies, etc. ---------------------      736 72
Printing and stationery -------------------------      181 19
Freight, cartage, express, telephone,
  telegraph and postage -------------------------    1,580 62
Total expenditures ------------------------------  $20,252 68
Receipts:
  Rent of plates and sale of installation -------     $253 50

FOREST, FISH AND GAME

General traveling expenses, collecting
  exhibit material ------------------------------   $1,890 22
Cost of exhibit material ------------------------    5,782 49
Allowance for maintenance of special agent
  and assistants at St. Louis during
  Exposition period, and for packing and
  returning exhibit -----------------------------   $3,183 73
Installation--flooring, cabinets, show cases,
  frames, etc. ----------------------------------    3,283 42
Printing and stationery -------------------------      262 81
Freight, cartage, express and storage -----------      361 07
Miscellaneous supplies --------------------------       97 40
    Total expenditures --------------------------  $14,861 14
Receipts:
    Sale of floors ------------------------------      $15 00

MINES AND METALLURGY

Clerk hire and labor ----------------------------     $901 08
Traveling expenses, collecting exhibit and
  maintenance of attendants and assistants
  at St. Louis ----------------------------------    2,631 59
Excavating fossil trails ------------------------      180 91
Installation--flooring, cases, cabinets,
  counters, etc. --------------------------------    2,155 22
Freight, cartage, express, etc. -----------------    1,187 94
Postage, telephone and telegraph ----------------       91 22
Printing and stationery -------------------------      122 78
Supplies ----------------------------------------      207 44
Other miscellaneous expenditures ----------------      254 18
    Total expenditures --------------------------   $7,732 36

SOCIAL ECONOMY

Charities:
  Services of assistants preparing
    statistics, etc. ----------------------------     $148 25
  Supplies, photographs, etc.--------------------      549 56
  Freight, express and cartage ------------------      $52 25
  Printing and stationery -----------------------       16 58
    Total ---------------------------------------     $766 64
Model of Craig Colony ---------------------------     $500 08
Excise:
  Preparation and installation of charts --------     $276 32
Labor:
  Preparation of graphic charts -----------------     $505 15
  Printing, engraving, binding, etc. ------------      201 45
  Traveling expenses ----------------------------       44 50
    Total ---------------------------------------     $751 10

Lunacy:
  Services of assistants ------------------------      $86 00
  Photographs, supplies, etc. -------------------    1,291 58
  Traveling expenses ----------------------------       23 71
  Freight and cartage ---------------------------       40 28
    Total ---------------------------------------    $1441 57

Prisons:
  Traveling expenses and maintenance of
      attendants at St. Louis -------------------   $2,000 00

SUMMARY

Receipts:
  Appropriation, chapter 421, Laws of
    1902 ---------------------------------------- $100,000 00
  Appropriation, chapter 546, Laws of
    1903 ----------------------------------------  200,000 00
  Appropriation, chapter 640, Laws of
    1904 ----------------------------------------   40,000 00
  From General Administration, as per
    above schedule ------------------------------      833 47
  From State Building, construction -------------    7,025 00
  From State Building, maintenance --------------      $70 00
  From Education --------------------------------      666 50
  From Fine Arts --------------------------------       42 13
  From Agriculture and Live Stock ---------------      592 10
  From Horticulture -----------------------------      253 50
  From Forest, Fish and Game --------------------       15 00

    Total --------------------------------------- $349,497 70

Expenditures:
  General Administration ------------------------  $53,864 64
  State Building, construction ------------------  120,337 77
  State Building, maintenance -------------------   68,599 20
  Education -------------------------------------   22,749 11
  Fine Arts -------------------------------------    9,299 95
  Agriculture and Live Stock --------------------   23,285 45
  Horticulture ----------------------------------   20,252 68
  Forest, Fish and Game -------------------------   14,861 14
  Mines and Metallurgy --------------------------    7,732 36
  Social economy
    Charities --------------------------  $766 64
    Craig Colony -----------------------   500 08
    Excise -----------------------------   276 32
    Labor ------------------------------   751 10
    Lunacy ----------------------------- 1,441 57
    Prisons ---------------------------- 2,000 00
                                                     5,735 71
      Balance returned to State treasury --------    2,779 69
      Total ------------------------------------- $349,497 70

