The dome of the State House was soon distinctly seen; a conspicuous object, which seems to
rest lightly upon the countless edifices, a mural crown upon a kingly city. We thridded the
narrows, and off Long Island Head Captain Allen suddenly recollected he had a prisoner under
his charge. Petersen had been released from durance in the morning as usual, and light-hearted
and joyous, had toiled with the crew, apparently sympathizing in their feelings. Speaking English
fluently, and well acquainted with the harbor, for he had sailed a voyage out of Boston, it
would have been easy for him to slip quietly over the bow and swim to the shore, where, it
is possible, he might have escaped the fearful punishment that awaited him for his crimes.
But he made no effort to escape, and was now conducted below by the mate, handcuffed, and confined
to his quarters in the half-deck.

We had no sooner anchored off Long Wharf than Captain Allen went ashore, and in about an hour
the United States Marshal, accompanied by a posse with handcuffs and shackles, came on board
and demanded the prisoner. Petersen was brought on deck and delivered into his hands. But his
countenance had undergone an appalling change within a few hours. He seemed suddenly to have
realized the horrors of his situation. His features were pale, and his eye seemed glazed with
fear as he looked upon the officers of justice, and, trembling in every limb, was assisted
into the boat. A sense of his guilt, and the terrible consequences, now seemed to weigh upon
his spirits. The penalty exacted by the laws for the crimes of piracy and murder stared him
in the face.

We arrived in Boston on the 24th of October, 1817, having been fifty-four days on our passage
from Gottenburg. I had not accumulated treasures during my wanderings, but I had improved my
constitution, acquired a habit of resignation and cheerfulness which bade defiance to the freaks
of fortune, gained some knowledge of the world, and rejoiced in robust health, one of the greatest
of earthly blessings, and which as often cheers and enlightens the condition of the poor man,
as his more fortunate fellow-mortal rolling in riches.

When paid off, I found myself in possession of means to rig myself out in decent apparel, and
provide myself with other exterior appurtenances of a gentleman; and also to defray my expenses
on a visit to my relations in New Hampshire, from whom I had so long been separated, and whom
I longed to convince by tangible proofs that I was still in the land of the living. And thus
I returned from my wanderings after an absence of nearly seven years, during which I had witnessed
many eventful scenes, and had studied the page of human nature in various climes.

Notwithstanding my occasional hard fortune at sea, a seafaring life still possessed many powerful
attractions. I was bound to it by a charm which I did not attempt to break. Besides, I had
put my hand to the plough and I would not look back. Although I had passed many happy hours
in the forecastle, free from care and responsibility, and associating with men whose minds,
if may be, were uncultivated, but whose heads were well furnished and whose hearts were in
the right place, yet visions of an important station on "the quarter-deck," at no distant period,
were often conjured up by my imagination; and I resolved that many day should not pass before
I would again brave the perils, share the strange excitement, and court the joys which accompany
life on the sea.

Chapter XXXVIII. THE SEA, AND SAILORS

When we embark on the ocean, we are astonished at its immensity, bounded only by the horizon,
with not a speck of land, a solitary rock, or landmark of any description, to guide the adventurers
cast adrift on its broad surface, with "water, water, every where;" and when we see its face
agitated by storms, and listen to the thunder of its billows, and reflect on its uncertain
and mysterious character, and on the dangers with which it has been associated in every age,
we wonder at the courage and enterprise of those early navigators, strangers to science, who
dared embark on the waste of waters in vessels of the frailest construction, to explore the
expanse of ocean and make discovery of,

     "New lands,
     Rivers and mountains on the spotted globe."

Even familiarity with the sea, which has become the great highway of nations, does not diminish
its sublimity, its wild beauties, its grandeur, and the terrible power of its wrath.

The immensity of the sea, notwithstanding its surface has been traversed and measured by thousands
of voyagers for centuries, fills the contemplative mind with awe, as a wonderful creation of
Almighty Power. One can hardly realize its vast extent from figures and calculations, without
sailing over its surface and witnessing its immensity, as day after day passes away, the cry
being still "onward, onward!" and the view bounded on every side by the distant horizon.

On gazing down into its depths, when not a breath of wind sweeps over its surface, when its
face is like a polished mirror, we find the water almost as transparent as the air we breathe,
yet the keenest optics can penetrate but a few fathoms below the surface. The movements, the
operations instinct with life, that are constantly taking place in that body of water, and
the mighty changes which are going on in the vast tract of earth on which it reposes, are invisible
to mortal eye.

Within a few years, the progress of scientific knowledge has enabled man to measure the depths
of the ocean, which were formerly believed to be as unfathomable as boundless in extent. From
soundings which have been taken, it is ascertained that the configuration of the earth at the
bottom of the sea, is similar to that portion which rises above the surface, undulating, and
interspersed with hills, and valleys, and plains, and mountain ranges, and abrupt precipices.
The greatest depth of water at which soundings have been obtained, being between five and six
miles, is deeper than the altitude of the highest mountain of which we have knowledge; and
there may be cavities of far greater depth. Geological researches prove that at an early period
of the history of the earth its surface was vastly more irregular than at the present time.
Not only the mountains on the earth were higher, but the deepest valleys of ocean were far
deeper. Disintegrations caused by exposure to water or the atmosphere, and abrasions from causes
with which we may not be familiar, have lowered the mountain tops, and created deposits which
raise the plains and fill the deepest chasms. And here geologists find the origin of the earliest
formation of stratified rocks.

Men have striven in vain to develop the secrets which lie hidden in the sea. Imagination has
been at work for ages, and in some cases has pictured the bottom of ocean as a sort of marine
paradise, a nautical Eden, with charming grottoes, spacious gardens, coral forests, ridges
of golden sands, and heaps of precious gems; and abounding in inhabitants with fairy forms,
angelic features, and other attributes corresponding with the favored region in which they
flourish, who sometimes rise to the surface of ocean, and seated on the craggy rocks, sing
sweet ballads to charm away the life of the unwary mariner. Leyden, a Scottish poet, imagines
one of these charming denizens of the deep to describe, in the following poetic language, the
attractions of this submarine world:

     "How sweet, when billows heave their head,
     And shake their arrowy crests on high,
     Serene, in Ocean's sapphire bed,
     Beneath the trembling surge to lie!

