"Well," interrupted Montrose, "that boy shall be pledge for the fidelity of his parent, and
if he prove faithful, the child's preferment shall be his reward.--And now, Major Dalgetty,
I will license your departure for the night; tomorrow you will introduce this MacEagh, under
any name or character he may please to assume. I presume his profession has rendered him sufficiently
expert in all sort of disguises; or we may admit John of Moidart into our schemes, who has
sense, practicability, and intelligence, and will probably allow this man for a time to be
disguised as one of his followers. For you, Major, my groom of the chambers will be your quarter-master
for this evening."

Major Dalgetty took his leave with a joyful heart greatly elated with the reception he had
met with, and much pleased with the personal manners of his new General, which, as he explained
at great length to Ranald MacEagh, reminded him in many respects of the demeanour of the immortal
Gustavus Adolphus, the Lion of the North, and Bulwark of the Protestant Faith.

CHAPTER XVII.

By break of day Montrose received in his cabin old MacEagh, and questioned him long and particularly
as to the means of approaching the country of Argyle. He made a note of his answers, which
he compared with those of two of his followers, whom he introduced as the most prudent and
experienced. He found them to correspond in all respects; but, still unsatisfied where precaution
was so necessary, the Marquis compared the information he had received with that he was able
to collect from the Chiefs who lay most near to the destined scene of invasion, and being in
all respects satisfied of its accuracy, he resolved to proceed in full reliance upon it.

In one point Montrose changed his mind. Having judged it unfit to take the boy Kenneth into
his own service, lest, in case of his birth being discovered, it should be resented as an offence
by the numerous clans who entertained a feudal enmity to this devoted family, he requested
the Major to take him in attendance upon himself; and as he accompanied this request with a
handsome DOUCEUR, under pretence of clothing and equipping the lad, this change was agreeable
to all parties.

It was about breakfast-time, when Major Dalgetty, being dismissed by Montrose, went in quest
of his old acquaintances, Lord Menteith and the M'Aulays, to whom he longed to communicate
his own adventures, as well as to learn from them the particulars of the campaign. It may be
imagined he was received with great glee by men to whom the late uniformity of their military
life had rendered any change of society an interesting novelty. Allan M'Aulay alone seemed
to recoil from his former acquaintance, although, when challenged by his brother, he could
render no other reason than a reluctance to be familiar with one who had been so lately in
the company of Argyle, and other enemies. Major Dalgetty was a little alarmed by this sort
of instinctive consciousness which Allan seemed to entertain respecting the society he had
been lately keeping; he was soon satisfied, however, that the perceptions of the seer in this
particular were not infallible.

As Ranald MacEagh was to be placed under Major Dalgetty's protection and superintendence, it
was necessary he should present him to those persons with whom he was most likely to associate.
The dress of the old man had, in the meantime, been changed from the tartan of his clan to
a sort of clothing peculiar to the men of the distant Isles, resembling a waistcoat with sleeves,
and a petticoat, all made in one piece. This dress was laced from top to bottom in front, and
bore some resemblance to that called Polonaise, still worn by children in Scotland of the lower
rank. The tartan hose and bonnet completed the dress, which old men of the last century remembered
well to have seen worn by the distant Islesmen who came to the Earl of Mar's standard in the
year 1715.

Major Dalgetty, keeping his eye on Allan as he spoke, introduced Ranald MacEagh under the fictitious
name of Ranald MacGillihuron in Benbecula, who had escaped with him out of Argyle's prison.
He recommended him as a person skilful in the arts of the harper and the senachie, and by no
means contemptible in the quality of a second-sighted person or seer. While making this exposition,
Major Dalgetty stammered and hesitated in a way so unlike the usual glib forwardness of his
manner, that he could not have failed to have given suspicion to Allan M'Aulay, had not that
person's whole attention been engaged in steadily perusing the features of the person thus
introduced to him. This steady gaze so much embarrassed Ranald MacEagh, that his hand was beginning
to sink down towards his dagger, in expectation of a hostile assault, when Allan, suddenly
crossing the floor of the hut, extended his hand to him in the way of friendly greeting. They
sat down side by side, and conversed in a low mysterious tone of voice. Menteith and Angus
M'Aulay were not surprised at this, for there prevailed among the Highlanders who pretended
to the second-sight, a sort of Freemasonry, which generally induced them, upon meeting, to
hold communication with each other on the nature and extent of their visionary experiences.

"Does the sight come gloomy upon your spirits?" said Allan to his new acquaintance.

"As dark as the shadow upon the moon," replied Ranald, "when she is darkened in her mid-course
in heaven, and prophets foretell of evil times."

"Come hither," said Allan, "come more this way, I would converse with you apart; for men say
that in your distant islands the sight is poured forth with more clearness and power than upon
us, who dwell near the Sassenach."

While they were plunged into their mystic conference, the two English cavaliers entered the
cabin in the highest possible spirits, and announced to Angus M'Aulay that orders had been
issued that all should hold themselves in readiness for an immediate march to the westward.
Having delivered themselves of their news with much glee, they paid their compliments to their
old acquaintance Major Dalgetty, whom they instantly recognised, and enquired after the health
of his charger, Gustavus.

"I humbly thank you, gentlemen," answered the soldier, "Gustavas is well, though, like his
master, somewhat barer on the ribs than when you offered to relieve me of him at Darnlinvarach;
and let me assure you, that before you have made one or two of those marches which you seem
to contemplate with so much satisfaction in prospect, you will leave, my good knights, some
of your English beef, and probably an English horse or two, behind you."

Both exclaimed that they cared very little what they found or what they left, provided the
scene changed from dogging up and down Angus and Aberdeenshire, in pursuit of an enemy who
would neither fight nor run away.

"If such be the case," said Angus M'Aulay, "I must give orders to my followers, and make provision
too for the safe conveyance of Annot Lyle; for an advance into M'Callum More's country will
be a farther and fouler road than these pinks of Cumbrian knighthood are aware of." So saying,
he left the cabin.

"Annot Lyle!" repeated Dalgetty, "is she following the campaign?"

"Surely," replied Sir Giles Musgrave, his eye glancing slightly from Lord Menteith to Allan
M'Aulay; "we could neither march nor fight, advance nor retreat, without the influence of the
Princess of Harps."

"The Princess of Broadswords and Targets, I say," answered his companion; "for the Lady of
Montrose herself could not be more courteously waited upon; she has four Highland maidens,
and as many bare-legged gillies, to wait upon her orders."

"And what would you have, gentlemen?" said Allan, turning suddenly from the Highlander with
whom he was in conversation; "would you yourselves have left an innocent female, the companion
of your infancy, to die by violence, or perish by famine? There is not, by this time, a roof
upon the habitation of my fathers--our crops have been destroyed, and our cattle have been
driven--and you, gentlemen, have to bless God, that, coming from a milder and more civilized
country, you expose only your own lives in this remorseless war, without apprehension that
your enemies will visit with their vengeance the defenceless pledges you may have left behind you."

The Englishmen cordially agreed that they had the superiority in this respect; and the company,
now dispersing, went each to his several charge or occupation.

Allan lingered a moment behind, still questioning the reluctant Ranald MacEagh upon a point
in his supposed visions, by which he was greatly perplexed. "Repeatedly," he said, "have I
had the sight of a Gael, who seemed to plunge his weapon into the body of Menteith,--of that
young nobleman in the scarlet laced cloak, who has just now left the bothy. But by no effort,
though I have gazed till my eyes were almost fixed in the sockets, can I discover the face
of this Highlander, or even conjecture who he may be, although his person and air seem familiar
to me." [See Note II.--Wraiths.]

"Have you reversed your own plaid," said Ranald, "according to the rule of the experienced
Seers in such case?"

"I have," answered Allan, speaking low, and shuddering as if with internal agony.

"And in what guise did the phantom then appear to you?" said Ranald.

"With his plaid also reversed," answered Allan, in the same low and convulsed tone.

"Then be assured," said Ranald, "that your own hand, and none other, will do the deed of which
you have witnessed the shadow."

"So has my anxious soul a hundred times surmised," replied Allan. "But it is impossible! Were
I to read the record in the eternal book of fate, I would declare it impossible--we are bound
by the ties of blood, and by a hundred ties more intimate--we have stood side by side in battle,
and our swords have reeked with the blood of the same enemies--it is IMPOSSIBLE I should harm him!"

"That you WILL do so," answered Ranald, "is certain, though the cause be hid in the darkness
of futurity. You say," he continued, suppressing his own emotions with difficulty, "that side
by side you have pursued your prey like bloodhounds--have you never seen bloodhounds turn their
fangs against each other, and fight over the body of a throttled deer?"

"It is false!" said M'Aulay, starting up, "these are not the forebodings of fate, but the temptation
of some evil spirit from the bottomless pit!" So saying, he strode out of the cabin.

"Thou hast it!" said the Son of the Mist, looking after him with an air of exultation; "the
barbed arrow is in thy side! Spirits of the slaughtered, rejoice! soon shall your murderers'
swords be dyed in each other's blood."

On the succeeding morning all was prepared, and Montrose advanced by rapid marches up the river
Tay, and poured his desultory forces into the romantic vale around the lake of the same name,
which lies at the head of that river. The inhabitants were Campbells, not indeed the vassals
of Argyle, but of the allied and kindred house of Glenorchy, which now bears the name of Breadalbane.
Being taken by surprise, they were totally unprepared for resistance, and were compelled to
be passive witnesses of the ravages which took place among their flocks and herds. Advancing
in this manner to the vale of Loch Dochart, and laying waste the country around him, Montrose
reached the most difficult point of his enterprise.

To a modern army, even with the assistance of the good military road which now leads up by
Teinedrum to the head of Loch Awe, the passage of these extensive wilds would seem a task of
some difficulty. But at this period, and for long afterwards, there was no road or path whatsoever;
and to add to the difficulty, the mountains were already covered with snow. It was a sublime
scene to look up to them, piled in great masses, one upon another, the front rank of dazzling
whiteness, while those which arose behind them caught a rosy tint from the setting of a clear
wintry sun. Ben Cruachan, superior in magnitude, and seeming the very citadel of the Genius
of the Region, rose high above the others, showing his glimmering and scathed peak to the distance
of many miles.

The followers of Montrose were men not to be daunted by the sublime, yet terrible prospect
before them. Many of them were of that ancient race of Highlanders, who not only willingly
made their couch in the snow, but considered it as effeminate luxury to use a snowball for
a pillow. Plunder and revenge lay beyond the frozen mountains which they beheld, and they did
not permit themselves to be daunted by the difficulty of traversing them. Montrose did not
allow their spirits time to subside. He ordered the pipes to play in the van the ancient pibroch
entitled, "HOGGIL NAM BO," etc. (that is, We come through snow-drift to drive the prey), the
shrilling sounds of which had often struck the vales of the Lennox with terror. [It is the
family-march of the M'Farlanes, a warlike and predatory clan, who inhabited the western banks
of Loch-Lomond. See WAVERLY, Note XV.] The troops advanced with the nimble alacrity of mountaineers,
and were soon involved in the dangerous pass, through which Ranald acted as their guide, going
before them with a select party, to track out the way.

The power of man at no time appears more contemptible than when it is placed in contrast with
scenes of natural terror and dignity. The victorious army of Montrose, whose exploits had struck
terror into all Scotland, when ascending up this terrific pass, seemed a contemptible handful
of stragglers, in the act of being devoured by the jaws of the mountain, which appeared ready
to close upon them. Even Montrose half repented the boldness of his attempt, as he looked down
from the summit of the first eminence which he attained, upon the scattered condition of his
small army. The difficulty of getting forward was so great, that considerable gaps began to
occur in the line of march, and the distance between the van, centre, and rear, was each moment
increased in a degree equally incommodious and dangerous. It was with great apprehension that
Montrose looked upon every point of advantage which the hill afforded, in dread it might be
found occupied by an enemy prepared for defence; and he often afterwards was heard to express
his conviction, that had the passes of Strath-Fillan been defended by two hundred resolute
men, not only would his progress have been effectually stopped, but his army must have been
in danger of being totally cut off. Security, however, the bane of many a strong country and
many a fortress, betrayed, on this occasion, the district of Argyle to his enemies. The invaders
had only to contend with the natural difficulties of the path, and with the snow, which, fortunately,
had not fallen in any great quantity. The army no sooner reached the summit of the ridge of
hills dividing Argyleshire from the district of Breadalbane, than they rushed down upon the
devoted vales beneath them with a fury sufficiently expressive of the motives which had dictated
a movement so difficult and hazardous.

Montrose divided his army into three bodies, in order to produce a wider and more extensive
terror, one of which was commanded by the Captain of Clan Ranald, one intrusted to the leading
of Colkitto, and the third remained under his own direction. He was thus enabled to penetrate
the country of Argyle at three different points. Resistance there was none. The flight of the
shepherds from the hills had first announced in the peopled districts this formidable irruption,
and wherever the clansmen were summoned out, they were killed, disarmed, and dispersed, by
an enemy who had anticipated their motions. Major Dalgetty, who had been sent forward against
Inverary with the few horse of the army that were fit for service, managed his matters so well,
that he had very nearly surprised Argyle, as he expressed it, INTER POCULA; and it was only
a rapid flight by water which saved that chief from death or captivity. But the punishment
which Argyle himself escaped fell heavily upon his country and clan, and the ravages committed
by Montrose on that devoted land, although too consistent with the genius of the country and
times, have been repeatedly and justly quoted as a blot on his actions and character.

Argyle in the meantime had fled to Edinburgh, to lay his complaints before the Convention of
Estates. To meet the exigence of the moment, a considerable army was raised under General Baillie,
a Presbyterian officer of skill and fidelity, with whom was joined in command the celebrated
Sir John Urrie, a soldier of fortune like Dalgetty, who had already changed sides twice during
the Civil War, and was destined to turn his coat a third time before it was ended. Argyle also,
burning with indignation, proceeded to levy his own numerous forces, in order to avenge himself
of his feudal enemy. He established his head-quarters at Dunbarton, where he was soon joined
by a considerable force, consisting chiefly of his own clansmen and dependants. Being there
joined by Baillie and Urrie, with a very considerable army of regular forces, he prepared to
march into Argyleshire, and chastise the invader of his paternal territories.

But Montrose, while these two formidable armies were forming a junction, had been recalled
from that ravaged country by the approach of a third, collected in the north under the Earl
of Seaforth, who, after some hesitation, having embraced the side of the Covenanters, had now,
with the assistance of the veteran garrison of Inverness, formed a considerable army, with
which he threatened Montrose from Inverness-shire. Enclosed in a wasted and unfriendly country,
and menaced on each side by advancing enemies of superior force, it might have been supposed
that Montrose's destruction was certain. But these were precisely the circumstances under which
the active and enterprising genius of the Great Marquis was calculated to excite the wonder
and admiration of his friends, the astonishment and terror of his enemies. As if by magic,
he collected his scattered forces from the wasteful occupation in which they had been engaged;
and scarce were they again united, ere Argyle and his associate generals were informed, that
the royalists, having suddenly disappeared from Argyleshire, had retreated northwards among
the dusky and impenetrable mountains of Lochaber.

The sagacity of the generals opposed to Montrose immediately conjectured, that it was the purpose
of their active antagonist to fight with, and, if possible, to destroy Seaforth, ere they could
come to his assistance. This occasioned a corresponding change in their operations. Leaving
this chieftain to make the best defence he could, Urrie and Baillie again separated their forces
from those of Argyle; and, having chiefly horse and Lowland troops under their command, they
kept the southern side of the Grampian ridge, moving along eastward into the county of Angus,
resolving from thence to proceed into Aberdeenshire, in order to intercept Montrose, if he
should attempt to escape in that direction.

Argyle, with his own levies and other troops, undertook to follow Montrose's march; so that,
in case he should come to action either with Seaforth, or with Baillie and Urrie, he might
be placed between two fires by this third army, which, at a secure distance, was to hang upon
his rear.

For this purpose, Argyle once more moved towards Inverary, having an opportunity, at every
step, to deplore the severities which the hostile clans had exercised on his dependants and
country. Whatever noble qualities the Highlanders possessed, and they had many, clemency in
treating a hostile country was not of the number; but even the ravages of hostile troops combined
to swell the number of Argyle's followers. It is still a Highland proverb, He whose house is
burnt must become a soldier; and hundreds of the inhabitants of these unfortunate valleys had
now no means of maintenance, save by exercising upon others the severities they had themselves
sustained, and no future prospect of happiness, excepting in the gratification of revenge.
His bands were, therefore, augmented by the very circumstances which had desolated his country,
and Argyle soon found himself at the head of three thousand determined men, distinguished for
activity and courage, and commanded by gentlemen of his own name, who yielded to none in those
qualities. Under himself, he conferred the principal command upon Sir Duncan Campbell of Ardenvohr,
and another Sir Duncan Campbell of Auchenbreck, [This last character is historical] an experienced
and veteran soldier, whom he had recalled from the wars of Ireland for this purpose. The cold
spirit of Argyle himself, however, clogged the military councils of his more intrepid assistants;
and it was resolved, notwithstanding their increased force, to observe the same plan of operations,
and to follow Montrose cautiously, in whatever direction he should march, avoiding an engagement
until an opportunity should occur of falling upon his rear, while he should be engaged with
another enemy in front.

CHAPTER XVIII.

     Piobracht au Donuil-dhu,
     Piobrachet au Donuil,
     Piobrachet agus S'breittach
     Feacht an Innerlochy.

     The war-tune of Donald the Black,
     The war-tune of Black Donald,
     The pipes and the banner
     Are up in the rendezvous of Inverlochy.

The military road connecting the chains of forts, as it is called, and running in the general
line of the present Caledonian Canal, has now completely opened the great glen, or chasm, extending
almost across the whole island, once doubtless filled by the sea, and still affording basins
for that long line of lakes, by means of which modern art has united the German and Atlantic
Oceans. The paths or tracks by which the natives traversed this extensive valley, were, in
1645-6, in the same situation as when they awaked the strain of an Irish engineer officer,
who had been employed in converting them into practicable military roads, and whose eulogium
begins, and, for aught I know, ends, as follows:

Had you seen but these roads before they were made, You would have held up your hands and bless'd
General Wade.

But, bad as the ordinary paths were, Montrose avoided them, and led his army, like a herd of
wild deer, from mountain to mountain, and from forest to forest, where his enemies could learn
nothing of his motions, while he acquired the most perfect knowledge respecting theirs from
the friendly clans of Cameron and M'Donnell, whose mountainous districts he now traversed.
Strict orders had been given that Argyle's advance should be watched, and that all intelligence
respecting his motions should be communicated instantly to the General himself.

It was a moonlight night, and Montrose, worn out by the fatigues of the day, was laid down
to sleep in a miserable shieling. He had only slumbered two hours, when some one touched his
shoulder. He looked up, and, by the stately form and deep voice, easily recognised the Chief
of the Camerons.

"I have news for you," said that leader, "which is worth while to arise and listen to."

"M'Ilduy [Mhich-Connel Dhu, the descendant of Black Donald.] can bring no other," said Montrose,
addressing the Chief by his patronymic title--"are they good or bad?"

"As you may take them," said the Chieftain.

"Are they certain?" demanded Montrose.

"Yes," answered M'Ilduy, "or another messenger should have brought them. Know that, tired with
the task imposed upon me of accompanying that unhappy Dalgetty and his handful of horse, who
detained me for hours on the march at the pace of a crippled badger, I made a stretch of four
miles with six of my people in the direction of Inverlochy, and there met with Ian of Glenroy,
who had been out for intelligence. Argyle is moving upon Inverlochy with three thousand chosen
men, commanded by the flower of the sons of Diarmid.--These are my news--they are certain--it
is for you to construe their purport."

"Their purport must be good," answered Montrose, readily and cheerfully; "the voice of M'Ilduy
is ever pleasant in the ears of Montrose, and most pleasant when it speaks of some brave enterprise
at hand--What are our musters?"

He then called for light, and easily ascertained that a great part of his followers having,
as usual, dispersed to secure their booty, he had not with him above twelve or fourteen hundred
men.

"Not much above a third," said Montrose, pausing, "of Argyle's force, and Highlanders opposed
to Highlanders.--With the blessing of God upon the royal cause, I would not hesitate were the
odds but one to two."

"Then do not hesitate," said Cameron; "for when your trumpets shall sound to attack M'Callum
More, not a man of these glens will remain deaf to the summons. Glengarry--Keppoch--I myself--would
destroy, with fire and sword, the wretch who should remain behind under any pretence whatsoever.
To-morrow, or the next day, shall be a day of battle to all who bear the name of M'Donnell
or Cameron, whatever be the event."

"It is gallantly said, my noble friend," said Montrose, grasping his hand, "and I were worse
than a coward did I not do justice to such followers, by entertaining the most indubitable
hopes of success. We will turn back on this M'Callum More, who follows us like a raven to devour
the relics of our army, should we meet braver men who may be able to break its strength! Let
the Chiefs and leaders be called together as quickly as possible; and you, who have brought
us the first news of this joyful event,--for such it shall be,--you, M'Ilduy, shall bring it
to a joyful issue, by guiding us the best and nearest road against our enemy."

"That will I willingly do," said M'Ilduy; "if I have shown you paths by which to retreat through
these dusky wilds, with far more readiness will I teach you how to advance against your foe."

A general bustle now prevailed, and the leaders were everywhere startled from the rude couches
on which they had sought temporary repose.

"I never thought," said Major Dalgetty, when summoned up from a handful of rugged heather roots,
"to have parted from a bed as hard as a stable-broom with such bad will; but, indubitably,
having but one man of military experience in his army, his Excellency the Marquis may be vindicated
in putting him upon hard duty."

So saying, he repaired to the council, where, notwithstanding his pedantry, Montrose seemed
always to listen to him with considerable attention; partly because the Major really possessed
military knowledge and experience, and often made suggestions which were found of advantage,
and partly because it relieved the General from the necessity of deferring entirely to the
opinion of the Highland Chiefs, and gave him additional ground for disputing it when it was
not agreeable to his own. On the present occasion, Dalgetty joyfully acquiesced in the proposal
of marching back and confronting Argyle, which he compared to the valiant resolution of the
great Gustavus, who moved against the Duke of Bavaria, and enriched his troops by the plunder
of that fertile country, although menaced from the northward by the large army which Wallenstein
had assembled in Bohemia.

The Chiefs of Glengarry, Keppoch, and Lochiel, whose clans, equal in courage and military fame
to any in the Highlands, lay within the neighbourhood of the scene of action, dispatched the
fiery cross through their vassals, to summon every one who could bear arms to meet the King's
lieutenant, and to join the standards of their respective Chiefs, as they marched towards Inverlochy.
As the order was emphatically given, it was speedily and willingly obeyed. Their natural love
of war, their zeal for the royal cause,--for they viewed the King in the light of a chief whom
his clansmen had deserted,--as well as their implicit obedience to their own patriarch, drew
in to Montrose's army not only all in the neighbourhood who were able to bear arms, but some
who, in age at least, might have been esteemed past the use of them. During the next day's
march, which, being directed straight through the mountains of Lochaber, was unsuspected by
the enemy, his forces were augmented by handfuls of men issuing from each glen, and ranging
themselves under the banners of their respective Chiefs. This was a circumstance highly inspiriting
to the rest of the army, who, by the time they approached the enemy, found their strength increased
considerably more than one-fourth, as had been prophesied by the valiant leader of the Camerons.

While Montrose executed this counter-march, Argyle had, at the head of his gallant army, advanced
up the southern side of Loch-Eil, and reached the river Lochy, which combines that lake with
Loch-Lochy. The ancient Castle of Inverlochy, once, as it is said, a royal fortress, and still,
although dismantled, a place of some strength and consideration, offered convenient head-quarters,
and there was ample room for Argyle's army to encamp around him in the valley, where the Lochy
joins Loch-Eil. Several barges had attended, loaded with provisions, so that they were in every
respect as well accommodated as such an army wished or expected to be. Argyle, in council with
Auchenbreck and Ardenvohr, expressed his full confidence that Montrose was now on the brink
of destruction; that his troops must gradually diminish as he moved eastward through such uncouth
paths; that if he went westward, he must encounter Urrie and Baillie; if northward, fall into
the hands of Seaforth; or should he choose any halting-place, he would expose himself to be
attacked by three armies at once.

"I cannot rejoice in the prospect, my lord," said Auchebreck, "that James Grahame will be crushed
with little assistance of ours. He has left a heavy account in Argyleshire against him, and
I long to reckon with him drop of blood for drop of blood. I love not the payment of such debts
by third hands."

"You are too scrupulous," said Argyle; "what signifies it by whose hands the blood of the Grahames
is spilt? It is time that of the sons of Diarmid should cease to flow.--What say you, Ardenvohr?"

"I say, my lord," replied Sir Duncan, "that I think Auchenbreck will be gratified, and will
himself have a personal opportunity of settling accounts with Montrose for his depredations.
Reports have reached our outposts that the Camerons are assembling their full strength on the
skirts of Ben-Nevis; this must be to join the advance of Montrose, and not to cover his retreat."

"It must be some scheme of harassing and depredation," said Argyle, "devised by the inveterate
malignity of M'Ilduy, which he terms loyalty. They can intend no more than an attack on our
outposts, or some annoyance to to-morrow's march."

"I have sent out scouts," said Sir Duncan, "in every direction, to procure intelligence; and
we must soon hear whether they really do assemble any force, upon what point, or with what
purpose."

It was late ere any tidings were received; but when the moon had arisen, a considerable bustle
in the camp, and a noise immediately after heard in the castle, announced the arrival of important
intelligence. Of the scouts first dispersed by Ardenvohr, some had returned without being able
to collect anything, save uncertain rumours concerning movements in the country of the Camerons.
It seemed as if the skirts of Ben-Nevis were sending forth those unaccountable and portentous
sounds with which they sometimes announce the near approach of a storm. Others, whose zeal
carried them farther upon their mission, were entrapped and slain, or made prisoners, by the
inhabitants of the fastnesses into which they endeavoured to penetrate. At length, on the rapid
advance of Montrose's army, his advanced guard and the outposts of Argyle became aware of each
other's presence, and after exchanging a few musket-shots and arrows, fell back to their respective
main bodies, to convey intelligence and receive orders.

Sir Duncan Campbell, and Auchenbreck, instantly threw themselves on horseback, in order to
visit the state of the outposts; and Argyle maintained his character of commander-in-chief
with reputation, by making a respectable arrangement of his forces in the plain, as it was
evident that they might now expect a night alarm, or an attack in the morning at farthest.
Montrose had kept his forces so cautiously within the defiles of the mountain, that no effort
which Auchenbreck or Ardenvohr thought it prudent to attempt, could ascertain his probable
strength. They were aware, however, that, at the utmost computation, it must be inferior to
their own, and they returned to Argyle to inform him of the amount of their observations; but
that nobleman refused to believe that Montrose could be in presence himself. He said, "It was
a madness, of which even James Grahame, in his height of presumptuous frenzy, was incapable;
and he doubted not that their march was only impeded by their ancient enemies, Glencoe, Keppoch,
and Glengarry; and perhaps M'Vourigh, with his M'Phersons, might have assembled a force, which
he knew must be greatly inferior in numbers to his own, and whom, therefore, he doubted not
to disperse by force, or by terms of capitulation."

The spirit of Argyle's followers was high, breathing vengeance for the disasters which their
country had so lately undergone; and the night passed in anxious hopes that the morning might
dawn upon their vengeance. The outposts of either army kept a careful watch, and the soldiers
of Argyle slept in the order of battle which they were next day to occupy.

A pale dawn had scarce begun to tinge the tops of these immense mountains, when the leaders
of both armies prepared for the business of the day. It was the second of February, 1645-6.
The clansmen of Argyle were arranged in two lines, not far from the angle between the river
and the lake, and made an appearance equally resolute and formidable. Auchenbreck would willingly
have commenced the battle by an attack on the outposts of the enemy, but Argyle, with more
cautious policy, preferred receiving to making the onset. Signals were soon heard, that they
would not long wait for it in vain. The Campbells could distinguish, in the gorge of the mountains,
the war-tunes of various clans as they advanced to the onset. That of the Camerons, which bears
the ominous words, addressed to the wolves and ravens, "Come to me, and I will give you flesh,"
was loudly re-echoed from their native glens. In the language of the Highland bards, the war
voice of Glengarry was not silent; and the gathering tunes of other tribes could be plainly
distinguished, as they successively came up to the extremity of the passes from which they
were to descend into the plain.

"You see," said Argyle to his kinsmen, "it is as I said, we have only to deal with our neighbours;
James Grahame has not ventured to show us his banner."

At this moment there resounded from the gorge of the pass a lively flourish of trumpets, in
that note with which it was the ancient Scottish fashion to salute the royal standard.

"You may hear, my lord, from yonder signal," said Sir Duncan Campbell, "that he who pretends
to be the King's Lieutenant, must be in person among these men."

"And has probably horse with him," said Auchenbreck, "which I could not have anticipated. But
shall we look pale for that, my lord, when we have foes to fight, and wrongs to revenge?"

Argyle was silent, and looked upon his arm, which hung in a sash, owing to a fall which he
had sustained in a preceding march.

"It is true," interrupted Ardenvohr, eagerly, "my Lord of Argyle, you are disabled from using
either sword or pistol; you must retire on board the galleys--your life is precious to us as
a head--your hand cannot be useful to us as a soldier."

"No," said Argyle, pride contending with irresolution, "it shall never be said that I fled
before Montrose; if I cannot fight, I will at least die in the midst of my children."

Several other principal Chiefs of the Campbells, with one voice, conjured and obtested their
Chieftain to leave them for that day to the leading of Ardenvohr and Auchenbreck, and to behold
the conflict from a distance and in safety.--We dare not stigmatize Argyle with poltroonery;
for, though his life was marked by no action of bravery, yet he behaved with so much composure
and dignity in the final and closing scene, that his conduct upon the present and similar occasions,
should be rather imputed to indecision than to want of courage. But when the small still voice
within a man's own breast, which tells him that his life is of consequence to himself, is seconded
by that of numbers around him, who assure him that it is of equal advantage to the public,
history affords many examples of men more habitually daring than Argyle, who have consulted
self-preservation when the temptations to it were so powerfully increased.

"See him on board, if you will, Sir Duncan," said Auchenbreck to his kinsman; "It must be my
duty to prevent this spirit from spreading farther among us."

So saying, he threw himself among the ranks, entreating, commanding, and conjuring the soldiers,
to remember their ancient fame and their present superiority; the wrongs they had to revenge,
if successful, and the fate they had to dread, if vanquished; and imparting to every bosom
a portion of the fire which glowed in his own. Slowly, meanwhile, and apparently with reluctance,
Argyle suffered himself to be forced by his officious kinsmen to the verge of the lake, and
was transported on board of a galley, from the deck of which he surveyed with more safety than
credit the scene which ensued.

Sir Duncan Campbell of Ardenvohr, notwithstanding the urgency of the occasion, stood with his
eyes riveted on the boat which bore his Chieftain from the field of battle. There were feelings
in his bosom which could not be expressed; for the character of a Chief was that of a father,
and the heart of a clansman durst not dwell upon his failings with critical severity as upon
those of other men. Argyle, too, harsh and severe to others, was generous and liberal among
his kinsmen, and the noble heart of, Ardenvohr was wrung with bitter anguish, when he reflected
to what interpretation his present conduct might subject him.

"It is better it should be so," said he to himself, devouring his own emotion; "but--of his
line of a hundred sires, I know not one who would have retired while the banner of Diarmid
waved in the wind, in the face of its most inveterate foes!"

A loud shout now compelled him to turn, and to hasten with all dispatch to his post, which
was on the right flank of Argyle's little army.

The retreat of Argyle had not passed unobserved by his watchful enemy, who, occupying the superior
ground, could mark every circumstance which passed below. The movement of three or four horsemen
to the rear showed that those who retreated were men of rank.

"They are going," said Dalgetty, "to put their horses out of danger, like prudent cavaliers.
Yonder goes Sir Duncan Campbell, riding a brown bay gelding, which I had marked for my own
second charger."

"You are wrong, Major," said Montrose, with a bitter smile, "they are saving their precious
Chief--Give the signal for assault instantly--send the word through the ranks.--Gentlemen,
noble Chiefs, Glengarry, Keppoch, M'Vourigh, upon them instantly!--Ride to M'Ilduy, Major Dalgetty,
and tell him to charge as he loves Lochaber--return and bring our handful of horse to my standard.
They shall be placed with the Irish as a reserve."

CHAPTER XIX.

     As meets a rock a thousand waves, so Inisfail met Lochlin.
     --OSSIAN.

The trumpets and bagpipes, those clamorous harbingers of blood and death, at once united in
the signal for onset, which was replied to by the cry of more than two thousand warriors, and
the echoes of the mountain glens behind them. Divided into three bodies, or columns, the Highland
followers of Montrose poured from the defiles which had hitherto concealed them from their
enemies, and rushed with the utmost determination upon the Campbells, who waited their charge
with the greatest firmness. Behind these charging columns marched in line the Irish, under
Colkitto, intended to form the reserve. With them was the royal standard, and Montrose himself;
and on the flanks were about fifty horse, under Dalgetty, which by wonderful exertions had
been kept in some sort fit for service.

The right column of Royalists was led by Glengarry, the left by Lochiel, and the centre by
the Earl of Menteith, who preferred fighting on foot in a Highland dress to remaining with
the cavalry.

The Highlanders poured on with the proverbial fury of their country, firing their guns, and
discharging their arrows, at a little distance from the enemy, who received the assault with
the most determined gallantry. Better provided with musketry than their enemies, stationary
also, and therefore taking the more decisive aim, the fire of Argyle's followers was more destructive
than that which they sustained. The royal clans, perceiving this, rushed to close quarters,
and succeeded on two points in throwing their enemies into disorder. With regular troops this
must have achieved a victory; but here Highlanders were opposed to Highlanders, and the nature
of the weapons, as well as the agility of those who wielded them, was equal on both sides.

Their strife was accordingly desperate; and the clash of the swords and axes, as they encountered
each other, or rung upon the targets, was mingled with the short, wild, animating shrieks with
which Highlanders accompany the battle, the dance, or indeed violent exertion of any kind.
Many of the foes opposed were personally acquainted, and sought to match themselves with each
other from motives of hatred, or a more generous emulation of valour. Neither party would retreat
an inch, while the place of those who fell (and they fell fast on both sides) was eagerly supplied
by others, who thronged to the front of danger. A steam, like that which arises from a seething
cauldron, rose into the thin, cold, frosty air, and hovered above the combatants.

So stood the fight on the right and the centre, with no immediate consequence, except mutual
wounds and death.

On the right of the Campbells, the Knight of Ardenvohr obtained some advantage, through his
military skill and by strength of numbers. He had moved forward obliquely the extreme flank
of his line at the instant the Royalists were about to close, so that they sustained a fire
at once on front and in flank, and, despite the utmost efforts of their leader, were thrown
into some confusion. At this instant, Sir Duncan Campbell gave the word to charge, and thus
unexpectedly made the attack at the very moment he seemed about to receive it. Such a change
of circumstances is always discouraging, and often fatal. But the disorder was remedied by
the advance of the Irish reserve, whose heavy and sustained fire compelled the Knight of Ardenvohr
to forego his advantage, and content himself with repulsing the enemy. The Marquis of Montrose,
in the meanwhile, availing himself of some scattered birch trees, as well as of the smoke produced
by the close fire of the Irish musketry, which concealed the operation, called upon Dalgetty
to follow him with the horse, and wheeling round so as to gain the right flank and even the
rear of the enemy, he commanded his six trumpets to sound the charge. The clang of the cavalry
trumpets, and the noise of the galloping of the horse, produced an effect upon Argyle's right
wing which no other sounds could have impressed them with. The mountaineers of that period
had a superstitious dread of the war-horse, like that entertained by the Peruvians, and had
many strange ideas respecting the manner in which that animal was trained to combat. When,
therefore, they found their ranks unexpectedly broken, and that the objects of their greatest
terror were suddenly in the midst of them, the panic, in spite of Sir Duncan's attempts to
stop it, became universal. Indeed, the figure of Major Dalgetty alone, sheathed in impenetrable
armour, and making his horse caracole and bound, so as to give weight to every blow which he
struck, would have been a novelty in itself sufficient to terrify those who had never seen
anything more nearly resembling such a cavalier, than a SHELTY waddling under a Highlander
far bigger than itself. The repulsed Royalists returned to the charge; the Irish, keeping their
ranks, maintained a fire equally close and destructive. There was no sustaining the fight longer.
Argyle's followers began to break and fly, most towards the lake, the remainder in different
directions. The defeat of the right wing, of itself decisive, was rendered irreparable by the
death of Auchenbreck, who fell while endeavouring to restore order.

The Knight of Ardenvohr, with two or three hundred men, all gentlemen of descent and distinguished
gallantry,--for the Campbells are supposed to have had more gentlemen in their ranks than any
of the Highland clans, endeavoured, with unavailing heroism, to cover the tumultuary retreat
of the common file. Their resolution only proved fatal to themselves, as they were charged
again and again by fresh adversaries, and forced to separate from each other, until at length
their aim seemed only to be to purchase an honourable death by resisting to the very last.

"Good quarter, Sir Duncan," called out Major Dalgetty, when he discovered his late host, with
one or two others, defending himself against several Highlanders; and, to enforce his offer,
he rode up to him with his sword uplifted. Sir Duncan's reply was the discharge of a reserved
pistol, which took effect not on the person of the rider, but on that of his gallant horse,
which, shot through the heart, fell dead under him. Ranald MacEagh, who was one of those who
had been pressing Sir Duncan hard, took the opportunity to cut him down with his broadsword,
as he turned from him in the act of firing the pistol.

Allan M'Aulay came up at this moment. They were, excepting Ranald, followers of his brother
who were engaged on that part of the field, "Villains!" he said, "which of you has dared to
do this, when it was my positive order that the Knight of Ardenvohr should be taken alive?"

Half-a-dozen of busy hands, which were emulously employed in plundering the fallen knight,
whose arms and accoutrements were of a magnificence befitting his quality, instantly forbore
the occupation, and half the number of voices exculpated themselves, by laying the blame on
the Skyeman, as they called Ranald MacEagh.

"Dog of an Islander!" said Allan, forgetting, in his wrath, their prophetic brotherhood, "follow
the chase, and harm him no farther, unless you mean to die by my hand." They were at this moment
left almost alone; for Allan's threats had forced his own clan from the spot, and all around
had pressed onwards toward the lake, carrying before them noise, terror, and confusion, and
leaving behind only the dead and dying. The moment was tempting to MacEagh's vengeful spirit.--"That
I should die by your hand, red as it is with the blood of my kindred," said he, answering the
threat of Allan in a tone as menacing as his own, "is not more likely than that you should
fall by mine." With that, he struck at M'Aulay with such unexpected readiness, that he had
scarce time to intercept the blow with his target.

"Villain!" said Allan, in astonishment, "what means this?"

"I am Ranald of the Mist!" answered the Islesman, repeating the blow; and with that word, they
engaged in close and furious conflict. It seemed to be decreed, that in Allan M'Aulay had arisen
the avenger of his mother's wrongs upon this wild tribe, as was proved by the issue of the
present, as well as of former combats. After exchanging a few blows, Ranald MacEagh was prostrated
by a deep wound on the skull; and M'Aulay, setting his foot on him, was about to pass the broadsword
through his body, when the point of the weapon was struck up by a third party, who suddenly
interposed. This was no other than Major Dalgetty, who, stunned by the fall, and encumbered
by the dead body of his horse, had now recovered his legs and his understanding. "Hold up your
sword," said he to M'Aulay, "and prejudice this person no farther, in respect that he is here
in my safeconduct, and in his Excellency's service; and in regard that no honourable cavalier
is at liberty, by the law martial, to avenge his own private injuries, FLAGRANTE BELLO, MULTO
MAJUS FLAGRANTE PRAELIO."

"Fool!" said Allan, "stand aside, and dare not to come between the tiger and his prey!"

But, far from quitting his point, Dalgetty stept across the fallen body of MacEagh, and gave
Allan to understand, that if he called himself a tiger, he was likely, at present, to find
a lion in his path. There required no more than the gesture and tone of defiance to turn the
whole rage of the military Seer against the person who was opposing the course of his vengeance,
and blows were instantly exchanged without farther ceremony.

The strife betwixt Allan and MacEagh had been unnoticed by the stragglers around, for the person
of the latter was known to few of Montrose's followers; but the scuffle betwixt Dalgetty and
him, both so well known, attracted instant attention; and fortunately, among others, that of
Montrose himself, who had come for the purpose of gathering together his small body of horse,
and following the pursuit down Loch-Eil. Aware of the fatal consequences of dissension in his
little army, he pushed his horse up to the spot, and seeing MacEagh on the ground, and Dalgetty
in the attitude of protecting him against M'Aulay, his quick apprehension instantly caught
the cause of quarrel, and as instantly devised means to stop it. "For shame," he said, "gentlemen
cavaliers, brawling together in so glorious a field of victory!--Are you mad? Or are you intoxicated
with the glory which you have both this day gained?"

"It is not my fault, so please your Excellency," said Dalgetty. "I have been known a BONUS
SOCIUS, A BON CAMARADO, in all the services of Europe; but he that touches a man under my safeguard--"

"And he," said Allan, speaking at the same time, "who dares to bar the course of my just vengeance--"

"For shame, gentlemen!" again repeated Montrose; "I have other business for you both,--business
of deeper importance than any private quarrel, which you may easily find a more fitting time
to settle. For you, Major Dalgetty, kneel down."

"Kneel!" said Dalgetty; "I have not learned to obey that word of command, saving when it is
given from the pulpit. In the Swedish discipline, the front rank do indeed kneel, but only
when the regiment is drawn up six file deep."

"Nevertheless," repeated Montrose,--"kneel down, in the name of King Charles and of his representative."

When Dalgetty reluctantly obeyed, Montrose struck him lightly on the neck with the flat of
his sword, saying,--"In reward of the gallant service of this day, and in the name and authority
of our Sovereign, King Charles, I dub thee knight; be brave, loyal, and fortunate. And now,
Sir Dugald Dalgetty, to your duty. Collect what horsemen you can, and pursue such of the enemy
as are flying down the side of the lake. Do not disperse your force, nor venture too far; but
take heed to prevent their rallying, which very little exertion may do. Mount, then, Sir Dugald,
and do your duty."

"But what shall I mount?" said the new-made chevalier. "Poor Gustavus sleeps in the bed of
honour, like his immortal namesake! and I am made a knight, a rider, as the High Dutch have
it, just when I have not a horse left to ride upon." [In German, as in Latin, the original
meaning of the word Ritter, corresponding to Eques, is merely a horseman.]

"That shall not be said," answered Montrose, dismounting; "I make you a present of my own,
which has been thought a good one; only, I pray you, resume the duty you discharge so well."

With many acknowledgments, Sir Dugald mounted the steed so liberally bestowed upon him; and
only beseeching his Excellency to remember that MacEagh was under his safe-conduct, immediately
began to execute the orders assigned to him, with great zeal and alacrity.

"And you, Allan M'Aulay," said Montrose, addressing the Highlander, who, leaning his sword-point
on the ground, had regarded the ceremony of his antagonist's knighthood with a sneer of sullen
scorn,--"you, who are superior to the ordinary men led by the paltry motives of plunder, and
pay, and personal distinction,--you, whose deep knowledge renders you so valuable a counsellor,--is
it YOU whom I find striving with a man like Dalgetty, for the privilege of trampling the remains
of life out of so contemptible an enemy as lies there? Come, my friend, I have other work for
you. This victory, skilfully improved, shall win Seaforth to our party. It is not disloyalty,
but despair of the good cause, that has induced him to take arms against us. These arms, in
this moment of better augury, he may be brought to unite with ours. I shall send my gallant
friend, Colonel Hay, to him, from this very field of battle, but he must be united in commission
with a Highland gentleman of rank, befitting that of Seaforth, and of talents and of influence
such as may make an impression upon him. You are not only in every respect the fittest for
this most important mission, but, having no immediate command, your presence may be more easily
spared than that of a Chief whose following is in the field. You know every pass and glen in
the Highlands, as well as the manners and customs of every tribe. Go therefore to Hay, on the
right wing; he has instructions, and expects you. You will find him with Glenmorrison's men;
be his guide, his interpreter, and his colleague."

Allan M'Aulay bent on the Marquis a dark and penetrating glance, as if to ascertain whether
this sudden mission was not conferred for some latent and unexplained purpose. But Montrose,
skilful in searching the motives of others, was an equal adept in concealing his own. He considered
it as of the last consequence, in this moment of enthusiasm and exalted passion, to remove
Allan from the camp for a few days, that he might provide, as his honour required, for the
safety of those who had acted as his guides, when he trusted the Seer's quarrel with Dalgetty
might be easily made up. Allan, at parting, only recommended to the Marquis the care of Sir
Duncan Campbell, whom Montrose instantly directed to be conveyed to a place of safety. He took
the same precaution for MacEagh, committing the latter, however, to a party of the Irish, with
directions that he should be taken care of, but that no Highlander, of any clan, should have
access to him.

The Marquis then mounted a led horse, which was held by one of his attendants, and rode on
to view the scene of his victory, which was more decisive than even his ardent hopes had anticipated.
Of Argyle's gallant army of three thousand men, fully one-half fell in the battle, or in the
flight. They had been chiefly driven back upon that part of the plain where the river forms
an angle with the lake, so that there was no free opening either for retreat or escape. Several
hundreds were forced into the lake and drowned. Of the survivors, about one-half escaped by
swimming the river, or by an early flight along the left bank of the lake. The remainder threw
themselves into the old Castle of Inverlochy; but being without either provisions or hopes
of relief, they were obliged to surrender, on condition of being suffered to return to their
homes in peace. Arms, ammunition, standards, and baggage, all became the prey of the conquerors.

This was the greatest disaster that ever befell the race of Diarmid, as the Campbells were
called in the Highlands; it being generally remarked that they were as fortunate in the issue
of their undertakings, as they were sagacious in planning, and courageous in executing them.
Of the number slain, nearly five hundred were dunniwassels, or gentlemen claiming descent from
known and respected houses. And, in the opinion of many of the clan, even this heavy loss was
exceeded by the disgrace arising from the inglorious conduct of their Chief, whose galley weighed
anchor when the day was lost, and sailed down the lake with all the speed to which sails and
oars could impel her.

CHAPTER XX.

Montrose's splendid success over his powerful rival was not attained without some loss, though
not amounting to the tenth of what he inflicted. The obstinate valour of the Campbells cost
the lives of many brave men of the opposite party; and more were wounded, the Chief of whom
was the brave young Earl of Menteith, who had commanded the centre. He was but slightly touched,
however, and made rather a graceful than a terrible appearance when he presented to his general
the standard of Argyle, which he had taken from the standard-bearer with his own hand, and
slain him in single combat. Montrose dearly loved his noble kinsman, in whom there was conspicuous
a flash of the generous, romantic, disinterested chivalry of the old heroic times, entirely
different from the sordid, calculating, and selfish character, which the practice of entertaining
mercenary troops had introduced into most parts of Europe, and of which degeneracy Scotland,
which furnished soldiers of fortune for the service of almost every nation, had been contaminated
with a more than usual share. Montrose, whose native spirit was congenial, although experience
had taught him how to avail himself of the motives of others, used to Menteith neither the
language of praise nor of promise, but clasped him to his bosom as he exclaimed, "My gallant
kinsman!" And by this burst of heartfelt applause was Menteith thrilled with a warmer glow
of delight, than if his praises had been recorded in a report of the action sent directly to
the throne of his sovereign.

"Nothing," he said, "my lord, now seems to remain in which I can render any assistance; permit
me to look after a duty of humanity--the Knight of Ardenvohr, as I am told, is our prisoner,
and severely wounded."

"And well he deserves to be so," said Sir Dugald Dalgetty, who came up to them at that moment
with a prodigious addition of acquired importance, "since he shot my good horse at the time
that I was offering him honourable quarter, which, I must needs say, was done more like an
ignorant Highland cateran, who has not sense enough to erect a sconce for the protection of
his old hurley-house of a castle, than like a soldier of worth and quality."

"Are we to condole with you then," said Lord Menteith, "upon the loss of the famed Gustavus?"

"Even so, my lord," answered the soldier, with a deep sigh, "DIEM CLAUSIT SUPREMUM, as we said
at the Mareschal-College of Aberdeen. Better so than be smothered like a cadger's pony in some
flow-moss, or snow-wreath, which was like to be his fate if this winter campaign lasted longer.
But it has pleased his Excellency" (making an inclination to Montrose) "to supply his place
by the gift of a noble steed, whom I have taken the freedom to name 'LOYALTY'S REWARD,' in
memory of this celebrated occasion."

"I hope," said the Marquis, "you'll find Loyalty's Reward, since you call him so, practised
in all the duties of the field,--but I must just hint to you, that at this time, in Scotland,
loyalty is more frequently rewarded with a halter than with a horse."

"Ahem! your Excellency is pleased to be facetious. Loyalty's Reward is as perfect as Gustavus
in all his exercises, and of a far finer figure. Marry! his social qualities are less cultivated,
in respect he has kept till now inferior company."

"Not meaning his Excellency the General, I hope," said Lord Menteith. "For shame, Sir Dugald!"

"My lord," answered the knight gravely, "I am incapable to mean anything so utterly unbecoming.
What I asseverate is, that his Excellency, having the same intercourse with his horse during
his exercise, that he hath with his soldiers when training them, may form and break either
to every feat of war which he chooses to practise, and accordingly that this noble charger
is admirably managed. But as it is the intercourse of private life that formeth the social
character, so I do not apprehend that of the single soldier to be much polished by the conversation
of the corporal or the sergeant, or that of Loyalty's Reward to have been much dulcified, or
ameliorated, by the society of his Excellency's grooms, who bestow more oaths, and kicks, and
thumps, than kindness or caresses, upon the animals intrusted to their charge; whereby many
a generous quadruped, rendered as it were misanthropic, manifests during the rest of his life
a greater desire to kick and bite his master, than to love and to honour him."

"Spoken like an oracle," said Montrose. "Were there an academy for the education of horses
to be annexed to the Mareschal-College of Aberdeen, Sir Dugald Dalgetty alone should fill the
chair."

"Because, being an ass," said Menteith, aside to the General, "there would be some distant
relation between the professor and the students."

"And now, with your Excellency's permission," said the new-made knight, "I am going to pay
my last visit to the remains of my old companion in arms."

"Not with the purpose of going through the ceremonial of interment?" said the Marquis, who
did not know how far Sir Dugald's enthusiasm might lead him; "consider our brave fellows themselves
will have but a hasty burial."

"Your Excellency will pardon me," said Dalgetty; "my purpose is less romantic. I go to divide
poor Gustavus's legacy with the fowls of heaven, leaving the flesh to them, and reserving to
myself his hide; which, in token of affectionate remembrance, I purpose to form into a cassock
and trowsers, after the Tartar fashion, to be worn under my armour, in respect my nether garments
are at present shamefully the worse of the wear.--Alas! poor Gustavus, why didst thou not live
at least one hour more, to have borne the honoured weight of knighthood upon thy loins!"

He was now turning away, when the Marquis called after him,--"As you are not likely to be anticipated
in this act of kindness, Sir Dugald, to your old friend and companion, I trust," said the Marquis,
"you will first assist me, and our principal friends, to discuss some of Argyle's good cheer,
of which we have found abundance in the Castle."

"Most willingly, please your Excellency," said Sir Dugald; "as meat and mass never hinder work.
Nor, indeed, am I afraid that the wolves or eagles will begin an onslaught on Gustavus to-night,
in regard there is so much better cheer lying all around. But," added he, "as I am to meet
two honourable knights of England, with others of the knightly degree in your lordship's army,
I pray it may be explained to them, that now, and in future, I claim precedence over them all,
in respect of my rank as a Banneret, dubbed in a field of stricken battle."

"The devil confound him!" said Montrose, speaking aside; "he has contrived to set the kiln
on fire as fast as I put it out.--'This is a point, Sir Dugald," said he, gravely addressing
him, "which I shall reserve for his Majesty's express consideration; in my camp, all must be
upon equality, like the Knights of the Round Table; and take their places as soldiers should,
upon the principle of,--first come, first served."

"Then I shall take care," said Menteith, apart to the Marquis, "that Don Dugald is not first
in place to-day.--Sir Dugald," added he, raising his voice, "as you say your wardrobe is out
of repair, had you not better go to the enemy's baggage yonder, over which there is a guard
placed? I saw them take out an excellent buff suit, embroidered in front in silk and silver."

"VOTO A DIOS! as the Spaniard says," exclaimed the Major, "and some beggarly gilly may get
it while I stand prating here!"

The prospect of booty having at once driven out of his head both Gustavus and the provant,
he set spurs to Loyalty's Reward, and rode off through the field of battle.

"There goes the hound," said Menteith, "breaking the face, and trampling on the body, of many
a better man than himself; and as eager on his sordid spoil as a vulture that stoops upon carrion.
Yet this man the world calls a soldier--and you, my lord, select him as worthy of the honours
of chivalry, if such they can at this day be termed. You have made the collar of knighthood
the decoration of a mere bloodhound."

"What could I do?" said Montrose. "I had no half-picked bones to give him, and bribed in some
manner he must be,--I cannot follow the chase alone. Besides, the dog has good qualities."

"If nature has given him such," said Menteith, "habit has converted them into feelings of intense
selfishness. He may be punctilious concerning his reputation, and brave in the execution of
his duty, but it is only because without these qualities he cannot rise in the service;--nay,
his very benevolence is selfish; he may defend his companion while he can keep his feet, but
the instant he is down, Sir Dugald will be as ready to ease him of his purse, as he is to convert
the skin of Gustavus into a buff jerkin."

"And yet, if all this were true, cousin," answered Montrose, "there is something convenient
in commanding a soldier, upon whose motives and springs of action you can calculate to a mathematical
certainty. A fine spirit like yours, my cousin, alive to a thousand sensations to which this
man's is as impervious as his corslet,--it is for such that thy friend must feel, while he
gives his advice." Then, suddenly changing his tone, he asked Menteith when he had seen Annot Lyle.

The young Earl coloured deeply, and answered, "Not since last evening,--excepting," he added,
with hesitation, "for one moment, about half an hour before the battle began."

"My dear Menteith," said Montrose, very kindly, "were you one of the gay cavaliers of Whitehall,
who are, in their way, as great self-seekers as our friend Dalgetty, should I need to plague
you with enquiring into such an amourette as this? it would be an intrigue only to be laughed
at. But this is the land of enchantment, where nets strong as steel are wrought out of ladies'
tresses, and you are exactly the destined knight to be so fettered. This poor girl is exquisitely
beautiful, and has talents formed to captivate your romantic temper. You cannot think of injuring
her--you cannot think of marrying her?"

"My lord," replied Menteith, "you have repeatedly urged this jest, for so I trust it is meant,
somewhat beyond bounds. Annot Lyle is of unknown birth,--a captive,--the daughter, probably,
of some obscure outlaw; a dependant on the hospitality of the M'Aulays."

"Do not be angry, Menteith," said the Marquis, interrupting him; "you love the classics, though
not educated at Mareschal-College; and you may remember how many gallant hearts captive beauty
has subdued:--

     Movit Ajacem, Telamone natum,
     Forma captivae dominum Tecmessae.

In a word, I am seriously anxious about this--I should not have time, perhaps," he added very
gravely, "to trouble you with my lectures on the subject, were your feelings, and those of
Annot, alone interested; but you have a dangerous rival in Allan M'Aulay; and there is no knowing
to what extent he may carry his resentment. It is my duty to tell you that the King's service
may be much prejudiced by dissensions betwixt you."

"My lord," said Menteith, "I know what you mean is kind and friendly; I hope you will be satisfied
when I assure you, that Allan M'Aulay and I have discussed this circumstance; and that I have
explained to him, that it is utterly remote from my character to entertain dishonourable views
concerning this unprotected female; so, on the other hand, the obscurity of her birth prevents
my thinking of her upon other terms. I will not disguise from your lordship, what I have not
disguised from M'Aulay,--that if Annot Lyle were born a lady, she should share my name and
rank; as matters stand, it is impossible. This explanation, I trust, will satisfy your lordship,
as it has satisfied a less reasonable person."

Montrose shrugged his shoulders. "And, like true champions in romance," he said, "you have
agreed, that you are both to worship the same mistress, as idolaters do the same image, and
that neither shall extend his pretensions farther?"

"I did not go so far, my lord," answered Menteith--"I only said in the present circumstances--and
there is no prospect of their being changed,--I could, in duty to myself and family, stand
in no relation to Annot Lyle, but as that of friend or brother--But your lordship must excuse
me; I have," said he, looking at his arm, round which he had tied his handkerchief, "a slight
hurt to attend to."

"A wound?" said Montrose, anxiously; "let me see it.--Alas!" he said, "I should have heard
nothing of this, had I not ventured to tent and sound another more secret and more rankling
one, Menteith; I am sorry for you--I too have known--But what avails it to awake sorrows which
have long slumbered!"

So saying, he shook hands with his noble kinsman, and walked into the castle.

Annot Lyle, as was not unusual for females in the Highlands, was possessed of a slight degree
of medical and even surgical skill. It may readily be believed, that the profession of surgery,
or medicine, as a separate art, was unknown; and the few rude rules which they observed were
intrusted to women, or to the aged, whom constant casualties afforded too much opportunity
of acquiring experience. The care and attention, accordingly, of Annot Lyle, her attendants,
and others acting under her direction, had made her services extremely useful during this wild
campaign. And most readily had these services been rendered to friend and foe, wherever they
could be most useful. She was now in an apartment of the castle, anxiously superintending the
preparation of vulnerary herbs, to be applied to the wounded; receiving reports from different
females respecting those under their separate charge, and distributing what means she had for
their relief, when Allan M'Aulay suddenly entered the apartment. She started, for she had heard
that he had left the camp upon a distant mission; and, however accustomed she was to the gloom
of his countenance, it seemed at present to have even a darker shade than usual. He stood before
her perfectly silent, and she felt the necessity of being the first to speak.

"I thought," she said, with some effort, "you had already set out."

"My companion awaits me," said Allan; "I go instantly." Yet still he stood before her, and
held her by the arm, with a pressure which, though insufficient to give her pain, made her
sensible of his great personal strength, his hand closing on her like the gripe of a manacle.

"Shall I take the harp?" she said, in a timid voice; "is--is the shadow falling upon you?"

Instead of replying, he led her to the window of the apartment, which commanded a view of the
field of the slain, with all its horrors. It was thick spread with dead and wounded, and the
spoilers were busy tearing the clothes from the victims of war and feudal ambition, with as
much indifference as if they had not been of the same species, and themselves exposed, perhaps
to-morrow, to the same fate.

"Does the sight please you?" said M'Aulay.

"It is hideous!" said Annot, covering her eyes with her hands; "how can you bid me look upon it?"

"You must be inured to it," said he, "if you remain with this destined host--you will soon
have to search such a field for my brother's corpse--for Menteith's--for mine---but that will
be a more indifferent task--You do not love me!"

"This is the first time you have taxed me with unkindness," said Annot, weeping. "You are my
brother--my preserver--my protector--and can I then BUT love you?--But your hour of darkness
is approaching, let me fetch my harp--"

"Remain," said Allan, still holding her fast; "be my visions from heaven or hell, or from the
middle sphere of disembodied spirits--or be they, as the Saxons hold, but the delusions of
an over-heated fancy, they do not now influence me; I speak the language of the natural, of
the visible world.--You love not me, Annot--you love Menteith--by him you are beloved again,
and Allan is no more to you than one of the corpses which encumber yonder heath."

It cannot be supposed that this strange speech conveyed any new information to her who was
thus addressed. No woman ever lived who could not, in the same circumstances, have discerned
long since the state of her lover's mind. But by thus suddenly tearing off the veil, thin as
it was, Allan prepared her to expect consequences violent in proportion to the enthusiasm of
his character. She made an effort to repel the charge he had stated.

"You forget," she said, "your own worth and nobleness when you insult so very helpless a being,
and one whom fate has thrown so totally into your power. You know who and what I am, and how
impossible it is that Menteith or you can use language of affection to me, beyond that of friendship.
You know from what unhappy race I have too probably derived my existence."

"I will not believe it," said Allan, impetuously; "never flowed crystal drop from a polluted
spring."

"Yet the very doubt," pleaded Annot, "should make you forbear to use this language to me."

"I know," said M'Aulay, "it places a bar between us--but I know also that it divides you not
so inseparably from Menteith.--Hear me, my beloved Annot!--leave this scene of terrors and
danger--go with me to Kintail--I will place you in the house of the noble Lady of Seaforth--or
you shall be removed in safety to Icolmkill, where some women yet devote themselves to the
worship of God, after the custom of our ancestors."

"You consider not what you ask of me," replied Annot; "to undertake such a journey under your
sole guardianship, were to show me less scrupulous than maiden ought. I will remain here, Allan--here
under the protection of the noble Montrose; and when his motions next approach the Lowlands,
I will contrive some proper means to relieve you of one, who has, she knows not how, become
an object of dislike to you."

Allan stood as if uncertain whether to give way to sympathy with her distress, or to anger
at her resistance.

"Annot," he said, "you know too well how little your words apply to my feelings towards you--but
you avail yourself of your power, and you rejoice in my departure, as removing a spy upon your
intercourse with Menteith. But beware both of you," he added, in a stern tone; "for when was
it ever heard that an injury was offered to Allan M'Aulay, for which he exacted not tenfold
vengeance?"

So saying, he pressed her arm forcibly, pulled the bonnet over his brows, and strode out of
the apartment.

CHAPTER XXI.

     --After you're gone,
     I grew acquainted with my heart, and search'd,
     What stirr'd it so.--Alas!  I found it love.
     Yet far from lust, for could I but have lived
     In presence of you, I had had my end.--PHILASTER.

Annot Lyle had now to contemplate the terrible gulf which Allan M'Aulay's declaration of love
and jealousy had made to open around her. It seemed as if she was tottering on the very brink
of destruction, and was at once deprived of every refuge, and of all human assistance. She
had long been conscious that she loved Menteith dearer than a brother; indeed, how could it
be otherwise, considering their early intimacy, the personal merit of the young nobleman, his
assiduous attentions,--and his infinite superiority in gentleness of disposition, and grace
of manners, over the race of rude warriors with whom she lived? But her affection was of that
quiet, timid, meditative character, which sought rather a reflected share in the happiness
of the beloved object, than formed more presumptuous or daring hopes. A little Gaelic song,
in which she expressed her feelings, has been translated by the ingenious and unhappy Andrew
M'Donald; and we willingly transcribe the lines:--

     Wert thou, like me, in life's low vale,
     With thee how blest, that lot I'd share;
     With thee I'd fly wherever gale
     Could waft, or bounding galley bear.
     But parted by severe decree,
     Far different must our fortunes prove;
     May thine be joy--enough for me
     To weep and pray for him I love.

     The pangs this foolish heart must feel,
     When hope shall be forever flown,
     No sullen murmur shall reveal,
     No selfish murmurs ever own.
     Nor will I through life's weary years,
     Like a pale drooping mourner move,
     While I can think my secret tears
     May wound the heart of him I love.

The furious declaration of Allan had destroyed the romantic plan which she had formed, of nursing
in secret her pensive tenderness, without seeking any other requital. Long before this, she
had dreaded Allan, as much as gratitude, and a sense that he softened towards her a temper
so haughty and so violent, could permit her to do; but now she regarded him with unalloyed
terror, which a perfect knowledge of his disposition, and of his preceding history, too well
authorised her to entertain. Whatever was in other respects the nobleness of his disposition,
he had never been known to resist the wilfulness of passion,--he walked in the house, and in
the country of his fathers, like a tamed lion, whom no one dared to contradict, lest they should
awaken his natural vehemence of passion. So many years had elapsed since he had experienced
contradiction, or even expostulation, that probably nothing but the strong good sense, which,
on all points, his mysticism excepted, formed the ground of his character, prevented his proving
an annoyance and terror to the whole neighbourhood. But Annot had no time to dwell upon her
fears, being interrupted by the entrance of Sir Dugald Dalgetty.

It may well be supposed, that the scenes in which this person had passed his former life, had
not much qualified him to shine in female society. He himself felt a sort of consciousness
that the language of the barrack, guard-room, and parade, was not proper to entertain ladies.
The only peaceful part of his life had been spent at Mareschal-College, Aberdeen; and he had
forgot the little he had learned there, except the arts of darning his own hose, and dispatching
his commons with unusual celerity, both which had since been kept in good exercise by the necessity
of frequent practice. Still it was from an imperfect recollection of what he had acquired during
this pacific period, that he drew his sources of conversation when in company with women; in
other words, his language became pedantic when it ceased to be military.

"Mistress Annot Lyle," said he, upon the present occasion, "I am just now like the half-pike,
or spontoon of Achilles, one end of which could wound and the other cure--a property belonging
neither to Spanish pike, brown-bill, partizan, halberd, Lochaber-axe, or indeed any other modern
staff-weapon whatever." This compliment he repeated twice; but as Annot scarce heard him the
first time, and did not comprehend him the second, he was obliged to explain.

"I mean," he said, "Mistress Annot Lyle, that having been the means of an honourable knight
receiving a severe wound in this day's conflict,--he having pistolled, somewhat against the
law of arms, my horse, which was named after the immortal King of Sweden,--I am desirous of
procuring him such solacement as you, madam, can supply, you being like the heathen god Esculapius"
(meaning possibly Apollo), "skilful not only in song and in music, but in the more noble art
of chirurgery-OPIFERQUE PER ORBEM DICOR."

"If you would have the goodness to explain," said Annot, too sick at heart to be amused by
Sir Dugald's airs of pedantic gallantry.

"That, madam," replied the Knight, "may not be so easy, as I am out of the habit of construing--but
we shall try. DICOR, supply EGO--I am called,--OPIFER? OPIFER?--I remember SIGNIFER and FURCIFER--but
I believe OPIFER stands in this place for M.D., that is, Doctor of Physic."

"This is a busy day with us all," said Annot; "will you say at once what you want with me?"

"Merely," replied Sir Dugald, "that you will visit my brother knight, and let your maiden bring
some medicaments for his wound, which threatens to be what the learned call a DAMNUM FATALE."

Annot Lyle never lingered in the cause of humanity. She informed herself hastily of the nature
of the injury, and interesting herself for the dignified old Chief whom she had seen at Darnlinvarach,
and whose presence had so much struck her, she hastened to lose the sense of her own sorrow
for a time, in the attempt to be useful to another.

Sir Dugald with great form ushered Annot Lyle to the chamber of her patient, in which, to her
surprise, she found Lord Menteith. She could not help blushing deeply at the meeting, but,
to hide her confusion, proceeded instantly to examine the wound of the Knight of Ardenvohr,
and easily satisfied herself that it was beyond her skill to cure it. As for Sir Dugald, he
returned to a large outhouse, on the floor of which, among other wounded men, was deposited
the person of Ranald of the Mist.

"Mine old friend," said the Knight, "as I told you before, I would willingly do anything to
pleasure you, in return for the wound you have received while under my safe-conduct. I have,
therefore, according to your earnest request, sent Mrs. Annot Lyle to attend upon the wound
of the knight of Ardenvohr, though wherein her doing so should benefit you, I cannot imagine.--I
think you once spoke of some blood relationship between them; but a soldado, in command and
charge like me, has other things to trouble his head with than Highland genealogies."

And indeed, to do the worthy Major justice, he never enquired after, listened to, or recollected,
the business of other people, unless it either related to the art military, or was somehow
or other connected with his own interest, in either of which cases his memory was very tenacious.

"And now, my good friend of the Mist," said he, "can you tell me what has become of your hopeful
grandson, as I have not seen him since he assisted me to disarm after the action, a negligence
which deserveth the strapado?"

"He is not far from hence," said the wounded outlaw--"lift not your hand upon him, for he is
man enough to pay a yard of leathern scourge with a foot of tempered steel."

"A most improper vaunt," said Sir Dugald; "but I owe you some favours, Ranald, and therefore
shall let it pass."

"And if you think you owe me anything," said the outlaw, "it is in your power to requite me
by granting me a boon."

"Friend Ranald," answered Dalgetty, "I have read of these boons in silly story-books, whereby
simple knights were drawn into engagements to their great prejudice; wherefore, Ranald, the
more prudent knights of this day never promise anything until they know that they may keep
their word anent the premises, without any displeasure or incommodement to themselves. It may
be, you would have me engage the female chirurgeon to visit your wound; though you ought to
consider, Ranald, that the uncleanness of the place where you are deposited may somewhat soil
the gaiety of her garments, concerning the preservation of which, you may have observed, women
are apt to be inordinately solicitous. I lost the favour of the lady of the Grand Pensionary
of Amsterdam, by touching with the sole of my boot the train of her black velvet gown, which
I mistook for a foot-cloth, it being half the room distant from her person."

"It is not to bring Annot Lyle hither," answered MacEagh, "but to transport me into the room
where she is in attendance upon the Knight of Ardenvohr. Somewhat I have to say of the last
consequence to them both."

"It is something out of the order of due precedence," said Dalgetty, "to carry a wounded outlaw
into the presence of a knight; knighthood having been of yore, and being, in some respects,
still, the highest military grade, independent always of commissioned officers, who rank according
to their patents; nevertheless, as your boon, as you call it, is so slight, I shall not deny
compliance with the same." So saying, he ordered three files of men to transport MacEagh on
their shoulders to Sir Duncan Campbell's apartment, and he himself hastened before to announce
the cause of his being brought thither. But such was the activity of the soldiers employed,
that they followed him close at the heels, and, entering with their ghastly burden, laid MacEagh
on the floor of the apartment. His features, naturally wild, were now distorted by pain; his
hands and scanty garments stained with his own blood, and those of others, which no kind hand
had wiped away, although the wound in his side had been secured by a bandage.

"Are you," he said, raising his head painfully towards the couch where lay stretched his late
antagonist, "he whom men call the Knight of Ardenvohr?"

"The same," answered Sir Duncan,--"what would you with one whose hours are now numbered?"

"My hours are reduced to minutes," said the outlaw; "the more grace, if I bestow them in the
service of one, whose hand has ever been against me, as mine has been raised higher against him."

"Thine higher against me!--Crushed worm!" said the Knight, looking down on his miserable adversary.

"Yes," answered the outlaw, in a firm voice, "my arm hath been highest. In the deadly contest
betwixt us, the wounds I have dealt have been deepest, though thine have neither been idle
nor unfelt.--I am Ranald MacEagh--I am Ranald of the Mist--the night that I gave thy castle
to the winds in one huge blaze of fire, is now matched with the day in which you have fallen
under the sword of my fathers.--Remember the injuries thou hast done our tribe--never were
such inflicted, save by one, beside thee. HE, they say, is fated and secure against our vengeance--a
short time will show."

"My Lord Menteith," said Sir Duncan, raising himself out of his bed, "this is a proclaimed
villain, at once the enemy of King and Parliament, of God and man--one of the outlawed banditti
of the Mist; alike the enemy of your house, of the M'Aulays, and of mine. I trust you will
not suffer moments, which are perhaps my last, to be embittered by his barbarous triumph."

"He shall have the treatment he merits," said Menteith; "let him be instantly removed."

Sir Dugald here interposed, and spoke of Ranald's services as a guide, and his own pledge for
his safety; but the high harsh tones of the outlaw drowned his voice.

"No," said he, "be rack and gibbet the word! let me wither between heaven and earth, and gorge
the hawks and eagles of Ben-Nevis; and so shall this haughty Knight, and this triumphant Thane,
never learn the secret I alone can impart; a secret which would make Ardenvohr's heart leap
with joy, were he in the death agony, and which the Earl of Menteith would purchase at the
price of his broad earldom.--Come hither, Annot Lyle," he said, raising himself with unexpected
strength; "fear not the sight of him to whom thou hast clung in infancy. Tell these proud men,
who disdain thee as the issue of mine ancient race, that thou art no blood of ours,--no daughter
of the race of the Mist, but born in halls as lordly, and cradled on couch as soft, as ever
soothed infancy in their proudest palaces."

"In the name of God," said Menteith, trembling with emotion, "if you know aught of the birth
of this lady, do thy conscience the justice to disburden it of the secret before departing
from this world!"

"And bless my enemies with my dying breath?" said MacEagh, looking at him malignantly.--"Such
are the maxims your priests preach--but when, or towards whom, do you practise them? Let me
know first the worth of my secret ere I part with it--What would you give, Knight of Ardenvohr,
to know that your superstitious fasts have been vain, and that there still remains a descendant
of your house?--I pause for an answer--without it, I speak not one word more.

"I could," said Sir Duncan, his voice struggling between the emotions of doubt, hatred, and
anxiety--"I could--but that I know thy race are like the Great Enemy, liars and murderers from
the beginning--but could it be true thou tellest me, I could almost forgive thee the injuries
thou hast done me."

"Hear it!" said Ranald; "he hath wagered deeply for a son of Diarmid--And you, gentle Thane--the
report of the camp says, that you would purchase with life and lands the tidings that Annot
Lyle was no daughter of proscription, but of a race noble in your estimation as your own--Well--It
is for no love I tell you--The time has been that I would have exchanged this secret against
liberty; I am now bartering it for what is dearer than liberty or life.--Annot Lyle is the
youngest, the sole surviving child of the Knight of Ardenvohr, who alone was saved when all
in his halls besides was given to blood and ashes."

"Can this man speak truth?" said Annot Lyle, scarce knowing what she said; "or is this some
strange delusion?"

"Maiden," replied Ranald, "hadst thou dwelt longer with us, thou wouldst have better learnt
to know how to distinguish the accents of truth. To that Saxon lord, and to the Knight of Ardenvohr,
I will yield such proofs of what I have spoken, that incredulity shall stand convinced. Meantime,
withdraw--I loved thine infancy, I hate not thy youth--no eye hates the rose in its blossom,
though it groweth upon a thorn, and for thee only do I something regret what is soon to follow.
But he that would avenge him of his foe must not reck though the guiltless be engaged in the ruin."

"He advises well, Annot," said Lord Menteith; "in God's name retire! if--if there be aught
in this, your meeting with Sir Duncan must be more prepared for both your sakes."

"I will not part from my father, if I have found one!" said Annot--"I will not part from him
under circumstances so terrible."

"And a father you shall ever find in me," murmured Sir Duncan.

"Then," said Menteith, "I will have MacEagh removed into an adjacent apartment, and will collect
the evidence of his tale myself. Sir Dugald Dalgetty will give me his attendance and assistance."

"With pleasure, my lord," answered Sir Dugald.--"I will be your confessor, or assessor--either
or both. No one can be so fit, for I had heard the whole story a month ago at Inverary castle--but
onslaughts like that of Ardenvohr confuse each other in my memory, which is besides occupied
with matters of more importance."

Upon hearing this frank declaration, which was made as they left the apartment with the wounded
man, Lord Menteith darted upon Dalgetty a look of extreme anger and disdain, to which the self-conceit
of the worthy commander rendered him totally insensible.

CHAPTER XXII. These declarations he carefully compared with such circumstances concerning the
destruction of his castle and family as Sir Duncan Campbell was able to supply; and it may
be supposed he had forgotten nothing relating to an event of such terrific importance. It was
of the last consequence to prove that this was no invention of the outlaw's, for the purpose
of passing an impostor as the child and heiress of Ardenvohr.

Perhaps Menteith, so much interested in believing the tale, was not altogether the fittest
person to be intrusted with the investigation of its truth; but the examinations of the Children
of the Mist were simple, accurate, and in all respects consistent with each other. A personal
mark was referred to, which was known to have been borne by the infant child of Sir Duncan,
and which appeared upon the left shoulder of Annot Lyle. It was also well remembered, that
when the miserable relics of the other children had been collected, those of the infant had
nowhere been found. Other circumstances of evidence, which it is unnecessary to quote, brought
the fullest conviction not only to Menteith, but to the unprejudiced mind of Montrose, that
in Annot Lyle, an humble dependant, distinguished only by beauty and talent, they were in future
to respect the heiress of Ardenvohr.

While Menteith hastened to communicate the result of these enquiries to the persons most interested,
the outlaw demanded to speak with his grandchild, whom he usually called his son. "He would
be found," he said, "in the outer apartment, in which he himself had been originally deposited."

Accordingly, the young savage, after a close search, was found lurking in a corner, coiled
up among some rotten straw, and brought to his grandsire.

"Kenneth," said the old outlaw, "hear the last words of the sire of thy father. A Saxon soldier,
and Allan of the Red-hand, left this camp within these few hours, to travel to the country
to Caberfae. Pursue them as the bloodhound pursues the hurt deer--swim the lake-climb the mountain--thread
the forest--tarry not until you join them;" and then the countenance of the lad darkened as
his grandfather spoke, and he laid his hand upon a knife which stuck in the thong of leather
that confined his scanty plaid. "No!" said the old man; "it is not by thy hand he must fall.
They will ask the news from the camp--say to them that Annot Lyle of the Harp is discovered
to be the daughter of Duncan of Ardenvohr; that the Thane of Menteith is to wed her before
the priest; and that you are sent to bid guests to the bridal. Tarry not their answer, but
vanish like the lightning when the black cloud swallows it.--And now depart, beloved son of
my best beloved! I shall never more see thy face, nor hear the light sound of thy footstep--yet
tarry an instant and hear my last charge. Remember the fate of our race, and quit not the ancient
manners of the Children of the Mist. We are now a straggling handful, driven from every vale
by the sword of every clan, who rule in the possessions where their forefathers hewed the wood,
and drew the water for ours. But in the thicket of the wilderness, and in the mist of the mountain,
Kenneth, son of Eracht, keep thou unsoiled the freedom which I leave thee as a birthright.
Barter it not neither for the rich garment, nor for the stone-roof, nor for the covered board,
nor for the couch of down--on the rock or in the valley, in abundance or in famine--in the
leafy summer, and in the days of the iron winter--Son of the Mist! be free as thy forefathers.
Own no lord--receive no law--take no hire--give no stipend--build no hut--enclose no pasture--sow
no grain;--let the deer of the mountain be thy flocks and herds--if these fail thee, prey upon
the goods of our oppressors--of the Saxons, and of such Gael as are Saxons in their souls,
valuing herds and flocks more than honour and freedom. Well for us that they do so--it affords
the broader scope for our revenge. Remember those who have done kindness to our race, and pay
their services with thy blood, should the hour require it. If a MacIan shall come to thee with
the head of the king's son in his hand, shelter him, though the avenging army of the father
were behind him; for in Glencoe and Ardnamurchan, we have dwelt in peace in the years that
have gone by. The sons of Diarmid--the race of Darnlinvarach--the riders of Menteith--my curse
on thy head, Child of the Mist, if thou spare one of those names, when the time shall offer
for cutting them off! and it will come anon, for their own swords shall devour each other,
and those who are scattered shall fly to the Mist, and perish by its Children. Once more, begone--shake
the dust from thy feet against the habitations of men, whether banded together for peace or
for war. Farewell, beloved! and mayst thou die like thy forefathers, ere infirmity, disease,
or age, shall break thy spirit--Begone!--begone!--live free--requite kindness--avenge the injuries
of thy race!"

The young savage stooped, and kissed the brow of his dying parent; but accustomed from infancy
to suppress every exterior sign of emotion, he parted without tear or adieu, and was soon far
beyond the limits of Montrose's camp.

Sir Dugald Dalgetty, who was present during the latter part of this scene, was very little
edified by the conduct of MacEagh upon the occasion. "I cannot think, my friend Ranald," said
he, "that you are in the best possible road for a dying man. Storms, onslaughts, massacres,
the burning of suburbs, are indeed a soldier's daily work, and are justified by the necessity
of the case, seeing that they are done in the course of duty; for burning of suburbs, in particular,
it may be said that they are traitors and cut-throats to all fortified towns. Hence it is plain,
that a soldier is a profession peculiarly favoured by Heaven, seeing that we may hope for salvation,
although we daily commit actions of so great violence. But then, Ranald, in all services of
Europe, it is the custom of the dying soldier not to vaunt him of such doings, or to recommend
them to his fellows; but, on the contrary, to express contrition for the same, and to repeat,
or have repeated to him, some comfortable prayer; which, if you please, I will intercede with
his Excellency's chaplain to prefer on your account. It is otherwise no point of my duty to
put you in mind of those things; only it may be for the ease of your conscience to depart more
like a Christian, and less like a Turk, than you seem to be in a fair way of doing."

The only answer of the dying man--(for as such Ranald MacEagh might now be considered)--was
a request to be raised to such a position that he might obtain a view from the window of the
Castle. The deep frost mist, which had long settled upon the top of the mountains, was now
rolling down each rugged glen and gully, where the craggy ridges showed their black and irregular
outline, like desert islands rising above the ocean of vapour. "Spirit of the Mist!" said Ranald
MacEagh, "called by our race our father, and our preserver--receive into thy tabernacle of
clouds, when this pang is over, him whom in life thou hast so often sheltered." So saying,
he sunk back into the arms of those who upheld him, spoke no further word, but turned his face
to the wall for a short space.

"I believe," said Dalgetty, "my friend Ranald will be found in his heart to be little better
than a heathen." And he renewed his proposal to procure him the assistance of Dr. Wisheart,
Montrose's military chaplain; "a man," said Sir Dugald, "very clever in his exercise, and who
will do execution on your sins in less time than I could smoke a pipe of tobacco."

"Saxon," said the dying man, "speak to me no more of thy priest--I die contented. Hadst thou
ever an enemy against whom weapons were of no avail--whom the ball missed, and against whom
the arrow shivered, and whose bare skin was as impenetrable to sword and dirk as thy steel
garment--Heardst thou ever of such a foe?"

"Very frequently, when I served in Germany," replied Sir Dugald. "There was such a fellow at
Ingolstadt; he was proof both against lead and steel. The soldiers killed him with the buts
of their muskets."

"This impassible foe," said Ranald, without regarding the Major's interruption, "who has the
blood dearest to me upon his hands--to this man I have now bequeathed agony of mind, jealousy,
despair, and sudden death,--or a life more miserable than death itself. Such shall be the lot
of Allan of the Red-hand, when he learns that Annot weds Menteith and I ask no more than the
certainty that it is so, to sweeten my own bloody end by his hand."

"If that be the case," said the Major, "there's no more to be said; but I shall take care as
few people see you as possible, for I cannot think your mode of departure can be at all creditable
or exemplary to a Christian army." So saying, he left the apartment, and the Son of the Mist
soon after breathed his last.

Menteith, in the meanwhile, leaving the new-found relations to their mutual feelings of mingled
emotion, was eagerly discussing with Montrose the consequences of this discovery. "I should
now see," said the Marquis, "even had I not before observed it, that your interest in this
discovery, my dear Menteith, has no small reference to your own happiness. You love this new-found
lady,--your affection is returned. In point of birth, no exceptions can be made; in every other
respect, her advantages are equal to those which you yourself possess--think, however, a moment.
Sir Duncan is a fanatic--Presbyterian, at least--in arms against the King; he is only with
us in the quality of a prisoner, and we are, I fear, but at the commencement of a long civil
war. Is this a time, think you, Menteith, for you to make proposals for his heiress? Or what
chance is there that he will now listen to it?"

Passion, an ingenious, as well as an eloquent advocate, supplied the young nobleman with a
thousand answers to these objections. He reminded Montrose that the Knight of Ardenvohr was
neither a bigot in politics nor religion. He urged his own known and proved zeal for the royal
cause, and hinted that its influence might be extended and strengthened by his wedding the
heiress of Ardenvohr. He pleaded the dangerous state of Sir Duncan's wound, the risk which
must be run by suffering the young lady to be carried into the country of the Campbells, where,
in case of her father's death, or continued indisposition, she must necessarily be placed under
the guardianship of Argyle, an event fatal to his (Menteith's) hopes, unless he could stoop
to purchase his favour by abandoning the King's party.

Montrose allowed the force of these arguments, and owned, although the matter was attended
with difficulty, yet it seemed consistent with the King's service that it should be concluded
as speedily as possible.

"I could wish," said he, "that it were all settled in one way or another, and that this fair
Briseis were removed from our camp before the return of our Highland Achilles, Allan M'Aulay.--I
fear some fatal feud in that quarter, Menteith--and I believe it would be best that Sir Duncan
be dismissed on his parole, and that you accompany him and his daughter as his escort. The
journey can be made chiefly by water, so will not greatly incommode his wound--and your own,
my friend, will be an honourable excuse for the absence of some time from my camp."

"Never!" said Menteith. "Were I to forfeit the very hope that has so lately dawned upon me,
never will I leave your Excellency's camp while the royal standard is displayed. I should deserve
that this trifling scratch should gangrene and consume my sword-arm, were I capable of holding
it as an excuse for absence at this crisis of the King's affairs."

"On this, then, you are determined?" said Montrose.

"As fixed as Ben-Nevis," said the young nobleman.

"You must, then," said Montrose, "lose no time in seeking an explanation with the Knight of
Ardenvohr. If this prove favourable, I will talk myself with the elder M'Aulay, and we will
devise means to employ his brother at a distance from the army until he shall be reconciled
to his present disappointment. Would to God some vision would descend upon his imagination
fair enough to obliterate all traces of Annot Lyle! That perhaps you think impossible, Menteith?--Well,
each to his service; you to that of Cupid, and I to that of Mars."

They parted, and in pursuance of the scheme arranged, Menteith, early on the ensuing morning,
sought a private interview with the wounded Knight of Ardenvohr, and communicated to him his
suit for the hand of his daughter. Of their mutual attachment Sir Duncan was aware, but he
was not prepared for so early a declaration on the part of Menteith. He said, at first, that
he had already, perhaps, indulged too much in feelings of personal happiness, at a time when
his clan had sustained so great a loss and humiliation, and that he was unwilling, therefore,
farther to consider the advancement of his own house at a period so calamitous. On the more
urgent suit of the noble lover, he requested a few hours to deliberate and consult with his
daughter, upon a question so highly important.

The result of this interview and deliberation was favourable to Menteith. Sir Duncan Campbell
became fully sensible that the happiness of his new-found daughter depended upon a union with
her lover; and unless such were now formed, he saw that Argyle would throw a thousand obstacles
in the way of a match in every respect acceptable to himself. Menteith's private character
was so excellent, and such was the rank and consideration due to his fortune and family, that
they outbalanced, in Sir Duncan's opinion, the difference in their political opinions. Nor
could he have resolved, perhaps, had his own opinion of the match been less favourable, to
decline an opportunity of indulging the new-found child of his hopes. There was, besides, a
feeling of pride which dictated his determination. To produce the Heiress of Ardenvohr to the
world as one who had been educated a poor dependant and musician in the family of Darnlinvarach,
had something in it that was humiliating. To introduce her as the betrothed bride, or wedded
wife, of the Earl of Menteith, upon an attachment formed during her obscurity, was a warrant
to the world that she had at all times been worthy of the rank to which she was elevated.

It was under the influence of these considerations that Sir Duncan Campbell announced to the
lovers his consent that they should be married in the chapel of the Castle, by Montrose's chaplain,
and as privately as possible. But when Montrose should break up from Inverlochy, for which
orders were expected in the course of a very few days, it was agreed that the young Countess
should depart with her father to his Castle, and remain there until the circumstances of the
nation permitted Menteith to retire with honour from his present military employment. His resolution
being once taken, Sir Duncan Campbell would not permit the maidenly scruples of his daughter
to delay its execution; and it was therefore resolved that the bridal should take place the
next evening, being the second after the battle.

CHAPTER XXIII.

     My maid--my blue-eyed maid, he bore away,
     Due to the toils of many a bloody day.--ILLIAD.

It was necessary, for many reasons, that Angus M'Aulay, so long the kind protector of Annot
Lyle, should be made acquainted with the change in the fortunes of his late protege; and Montrose,
as he had undertaken, communicated to him these remarkable events. With the careless and cheerful
indifference of his character, he expressed much more joy than wonder at Annot's good fortune;
had no doubt whatever she would merit it, and as she had always been bred in loyal principles,
would convey the whole estate of her grim fanatical father to some honest fellow who loved
the king. "I should have no objection that my brother Allan should try his chance," added he,
"notwithstanding that Sir Duncan Campbell was the only man who ever charged Darnlinvarach with
inhospitality. Annot Lyle could always charm Allan out of the sullens, and who knows whether
matrimony might not make him more a man of this world?" Montrose hastened to interrupt the
progress of his castle-building, by informing him that the lady was already wooed and won,
and, with her father's approbation, was almost immediately to be wedded to his kinsman, the
Earl of Menteith; and that in testimony of the high respect due to M'Aulay, so long the lady's
protector, he was now to request his presence at the ceremony. M'Aulay looked very grave at
this intimation, and drew up his person with the air of one who thought that he had been neglected.

"He contrived," he said, "that his uniform kind treatment of the young lady, while so many
years under his roof, required something more upon such an occasion than a bare compliment
of ceremony. He might," he thought, "without arrogance, have expected to have been consulted.
He wished his kinsman of Menteith well, no man could wish him better; but he must say he thought
he had been hasty in this matter. Allan's sentiments towards the young lady had been pretty
well understood, and he, for one, could not see why the superior pretensions which he had upon
her gratitude should have been set aside, without at least undergoing some previous discussion."

Montrose, seeing too well where all this pointed, entreated M'Aulay to be reasonable, and to
consider what probability there was that the Knight of Ardenvohr could be brought to confer
the hand of his sole heiress upon Allan, whose undeniable excellent qualities were mingled
with others, by which they were overclouded in a manner that made all tremble who approached him.

"My lord," said Angus M'Aulay, "my brother Allan has, as God made us all, faults as well as
merits; but he is the best and bravest man of your army, be the other who he may, and therefore
ill deserved that his happiness should have been so little consulted by your Excellency--by
his own near kinsman--and by a young person who owes all to him and to his family."

Montrose in vain endeavoured to place the subject in a different view; this was the point in
which Angus was determined to regard it, and he was a man of that calibre of understanding,
who is incapable of being convinced when he has once adopted a prejudice. Montrose now assumed
a higher tone, and called upon Angus to take care how he nourished any sentiments which might
be prejudicial to his Majesty's service. He pointed out to him, that he was peculiarly desirous
that Allan's efforts should not be interrupted in the course of his present mission; "a mission,"
he said, "highly honourable for himself, and likely to prove most advantageous to the King's
cause. He expected his brother would hold no communication with him upon other subjects, nor
stir up any cause of dissension, which might divert his mind from a matter of such importance."

Angus answered somewhat sulkily, that "he was no makebate, or stirrer-up of quarrels; he would
rather be a peacemaker. His brother knew as well as most men how to resent his own quarrels--as
for Allan's mode of receiving information, it was generally believed he had other sources than
those of ordinary couriers. He should not be surprised if they saw him sooner than they expected."

A promise that he would not interfere, was the farthest to which Montrose could bring this
man, thoroughly good-tempered as he was on all occasions, save when his pride, interest, or
prejudices, were interfered with. And at this point the Marquis was fain to leave the matter
for the present.

A more willing guest at the bridal ceremony, certainly a more willing attendant at the marriage
feast, was to be expected in Sir Dugald Dalgetty, whom Montrose resolved to invite, as having
been a confidant to the circumstances which preceded it. But even Sir Dugald hesitated, looked
on the elbows of his doublet, and the knees of his leather breeches, and mumbled out a sort
of reluctant acquiescence in the invitation, providing he should find it possible, after consulting
with the noble bridegroom. Montrose was somewhat surprised, but scorning to testify displeasure,
he left Sir Dugald to pursue his own course.

This carried him instantly to the chamber of the bride-groom, who, amidst the scanty wardrobe
which his camp-equipage afforded, was seeking for such articles as might appear to the best
advantage upon the approaching occasion. Sir Dugald entered, and paid his compliments, with
a very grave face, upon his approaching happiness, which, he said, "he was very sorry he was
prevented from witnessing."

"In plain truth," said he, "I should but disgrace the ceremony, seeing that I lack a bridal
garment. Rents, and open seams, and tatters at elbows in the apparel of the assistants, might
presage a similar solution of continuity in your matrimonial happiness--and to say truth, my
lord, you yourself must partly have the blame of this disappointment, in respect you sent me
upon a fool's errand to get a buff-coat out of the booty taken by the Camerons, whereas you
might as well have sent me to fetch a pound of fresh butter out of a black dog's throat. I
had no answer, my lord, but brandished dirks and broadswords, and a sort of growling and jabbering
in what they call their language. For my part, I believe these Highlanders to be no better
than absolute pagans, and have been much scandalized by the manner in which my acquaintance,
Ranald MacEagh, was pleased to beat his final march, a little while since."

In Menteith's state of mind, disposed to be pleased with everything, and everybody, the grave
complaint of Sir Dugald furnished additional amusement. He requested his acceptance of a very
handsome buff-dress which was lying on the floor. "I had intended it," he said, "for my own
bridal-garment, as being the least formidable of my warlike equipments, and I have here no
peaceful dress."

Sir Dugald made the necessary apologies--would not by any means deprive--and so forth, until
it happily occurred to him that it was much more according to military rule that the Earl should
be married in his back and breast pieces, which dress he had seen the bridegroom wear at the
union of Prince Leo of Wittlesbach with the youngest daughter of old George Frederick, of Saxony,
under the auspices of the gallant Gustavus Adolphus, the Lion of the North, and so forth. The
good-natured young Earl laughed, and acquiesced; and thus having secured at least one merry
face at his bridal, he put on a light and ornamented cuirass, concealed partly by a velvet
coat, and partly by a broad blue silk scarf, which he wore over his shoulder, agreeably to
his rank, and the fashion of the times.

Everything was now arranged; and it had been settled that, according to the custom of the country,
the bride and bridegroom should not again meet until they were before the altar. The hour had
already struck that summoned the bridegroom thither, and he only waited in a small anteroom
adjacent to the chapel, for the Marquis, who condescended to act as bride's-man upon the occasion.
Business relating to the army having suddenly required the Marquis's instant attention, Menteith
waited his return, it may be supposed, in some impatience; and when he heard the door of the
apartment open, he said, laughing, "You are late upon parade."

"You will find I am too early," said Allan M'Aulay, who burst into the apartment. "Draw, Menteith,
and defend yourself like a man, or die like a dog!"

"You are mad, Allan!" answered Menteith, astonished alike at his sudden appearance, and at
the unutterable fury of his demeanour. His cheeks were livid--his eyes started from their sockets--his
lips were covered with foam, and his gestures were those of a demoniac.

"You lie, traitor!" was his frantic reply--"you lie in that, as you lie in all you have said
to me. Your life is a lie!"

"Did I not speak my thoughts when I called you mad," said Menteith, indignantly, "your own
life were a brief one. In what do you charge me with deceiving you?"

"You told me," answered M'Aulay, "that you would not marry Annot Lyle!--False traitor!--she
now waits you at the altar."

"It is you who speak false," retorted Menteith. "I told you the obscurity of her birth was
the only bar to our union--that is now removed; and whom do you think yourself, that I should
yield up my pretensions in your favour?"

"Draw then," said M'Aulay; "we understand each other."

"Not now," said Menteith, "and not here. Allan, you know me well--wait till to-morrow, and
you shall have fighting enough."

"This hour--this instant--or never," answered M'Aulay.

"Your triumph shall not go farther than the hour which is stricken. Menteith, I entreat you
by our relationship--by our joint conflicts and labours--draw your sword, and defend your life!"
As he spoke, he seized the Earl's hand, and wrung it with such frantic earnestness, that his
grasp forced the blood to start under the nails. Menteith threw him off with violence, exclaiming,
"Begone, madman!"

"Then, be the vision accomplished!" said Allan; and, drawing his dirk, struck with his whole
gigantic force at the Earl's bosom. The temper of the corslet threw the point of the weapon
upwards, but a deep wound took place between the neck and shoulder; and the force of the blow
prostrated the bridegroom on the floor. Montrose entered at one side of the anteroom. The bridal
company, alarmed at the noise, were in equal apprehension and surprise; but ere Montrose could
almost see what had happened, Allan M'Aulay had rushed past him, and descended the castle stairs
like lightning. "Guards, shut the gate!" exclaimed Montrose--"Seize him--kill him, if he resists!--He
shall die, if he were my brother!"

But Allan prostrated, with a second blow of his dagger, a sentinel who was upon duty---traversed
the camp like a mountain-deer, though pursued by all who caught the alarm--threw himself into
the river, and, swimming to the opposite side, was soon lost among the woods. In the course
of the same evening, his brother Angus and his followers left Montrose's camp, and, taking
the road homeward, never again rejoined him.

Of Allan himself it is said, that, in a wonderfully short space after the deed was committed,
he burst into a room in the Castle of Inverary, where Argyle was sitting in council, and flung
on the table his bloody dirk.

"Is it the blood of James Grahame?" said Argyle, a ghastly expression of hope mixing with the
terror which the sudden apparition naturally excited.

"It is the blood of his minion," answered M'Aulay--"It is the blood which I was predestined
to shed, though I would rather have spilt my own."

Having thus spoken, he turned and left the castle, and from that moment nothing certain is
known of his fate. As the boy Kenneth, with three of the Children of the Mist, were seen soon
afterwards to cross Lochfine, it is supposed they dogged his course, and that he perished by
their hand in some obscure wilderness. Another opinion maintains, that Allan M'Aulay went abroad
and died a monk of the Carthusian order. But nothing beyond bare presumption could ever be
brought in support of either opinion.

His vengeance was much less complete than he probably fancied; for Menteith, though so severely
wounded as to remain long in a dangerous state, was, by having adopted Major Dalgetty's fortunate
recommendation of a cuirass as a bridal-garment, happily secured from the worst consequences
of the blow. But his services were lost to Montrose; and it was thought best, that he should
be conveyed with his intended countess, now truly a mourning bride, and should accompany his
wounded father-in-law to the castle of Sir Duncan at Ardenvohr. Dalgetty followed them to the
water's edge, reminding Menteith of the necessity of erecting a sconce on Drumsnab to cover
his lady's newly-acquired inheritance.

They performed their voyage in safety, and Menteith was in a few weeks so well in health, as
to be united to Annot in the castle of her father.

The Highlanders were somewhat puzzled to reconcile Menteith's recovery with the visions of
the second sight, and the more experienced Seers were displeased with him for not having died.
But others thought the credit of the vision sufficiently fulfilled, by the wound inflicted
by the hand, and with the weapon, foretold; and all were of opinion, that the incident of the
ring, with the death's head, related to the death of the bride's father, who did not survive
her marriage many months. The incredulous held, that all this was idle dreaming, and that Allan's
supposed vision was but a consequence of the private suggestions of his own passion, which,
having long seen in Menteith a rival more beloved than himself, struggled with his better nature,
and impressed upon him, as it were involuntarily, the idea of killing his competitor.

Menteith did not recover sufficiently to join Montrose during his brief and glorious career;
and when that heroic general disbanded his army and retired from Scotland, Menteith resolved
to adopt the life of privacy, which he led till the Restoration. After that happy event, he
occupied a situation in the land befitting his rank, lived long, happy alike in public regard
and in domestic affection, and died at a good old age.

Our DRAMATIS PERSONAE have been so limited, that, excepting Montrose, whose exploits and fate
are the theme of history, we have only to mention Sir Dugald Dalgetty. This gentleman continued,
with the most rigorous punctuality, to discharge his duty, and to receive his pay, until he
was made prisoner, among others, upon the field of Philiphaugh. He was condemned to share the
fate of his fellow-officers upon that occasion, who were doomed to death rather by denunciations
from the pulpit, than the sentence either of civil or military tribunal; their blood being
considered as a sort of sin-offering to take away the guilt of the land, and the fate imposed
upon the Canaanites, under a special dispensation, being impiously and cruelly applied to them.

Several Lowland officers, in the service of the Covenanters, interceded for Dalgetty on this
occasion, representing him as a person whose skill would be useful in their army, and who would
be readily induced to change his service. But on this point they found Sir Dugald unexpectedly
obstinate. He had engaged with the King for a certain term, and, till that was expired, his
principles would not permit any shadow of changing. The Covenanters, again, understood no such
nice distinction, and he was in the utmost danger of falling a martyr, not to this or that
political principle, but merely to his own strict ideas of a military enlistment. Fortunately,
his friends discovered, by computation, that there remained but a fortnight to elapse of the
engagement he had formed, and to which, though certain it was never to be renewed, no power
on earth could make him false. With some difficulty they procured a reprieve for this short
space, after which they found him perfectly willing to come under any engagements they chose
to dictate. He entered the service of the Estates accordingly, and wrought himself forward
to be Major in Gilbert Ker's corps, commonly called the Kirk's Own Regiment of Horse. Of his
farther history we know nothing, until we find him in possession of his paternal estate of
Drumthwacket, which he acquired, not by the sword, but by a pacific intermarriage with Hannah
Strachan, a matron somewhat stricken in years, the widow of the Aberdeenshire Covenanter.

*****

READER! THE TALES OF MY LANDLORD ARE NOW FINALLY CLOSED, closed, and it was my purpose to have
addressed thee in the vein of Jedediah Cleishbotham; but, like Horam the son of Asmar, and
all other imaginary story-tellers, Jedediah has melted into thin air.

Mr. Cleishbotham bore the same resemblance to Ariel, as he at whose voice he rose doth to the
sage Prospero; and yet, so fond are we of the fictions of our own fancy, that I part with him,
and all his imaginary localities, with idle reluctance. I am aware this is a feeling in which
the reader will little sympathize; but he cannot be more sensible than I am, that sufficient
varieties have now been exhibited of the Scottish character, to exhaust one individual's powers
of observation, and that to persist would be useless and tedious. I have the vanity to suppose,
that the popularity of these Novels has shown my countrymen, and their peculiarities, in lights
which were new to the Southern reader; and that many, hitherto indifferent upon the subject,
have been induced to read Scottish history, from the allusions to it in these works of fiction.

IV. APPENDIX.

No. I

The scarcity of my late friend's poem may be an excuse for adding the spirited conclusion of
Clan Alpin's vow. The Clan Gregor has met in the ancient church of Balquidder. The head of
Drummond-Ernoch is placed on the altar, covered for a time with the banner of the tribe. The
Chief of the tribe advances to the altar:

