Not long after this, the General rushed into my office in a paroxysm of rage,--the only time
I ever saw him disturbed. His honor had been questioned, and by whom, of all the world? Why,--would
I believe it?--by his friend, Colonel Bouchette! Upon further inquiry, I found that he had
received a draft from his sister, which had to pass through a secret channel to him, lest their
estates should be confiscated in Hungary; that, after two or three disappointments, he had
succeeded in getting it cashed here without endangering a certain friend in New York; that
on mentioning the circumstance to Colonel Bouchette, who had counselled him not to attempt
the negotiation here, that gentleman had laughed in his face; whereupon the General turned
his back on him, and hurried off to my office. A friend was with me at the time. "Ach, mein
Freund!" said the General, as he finished the story, "he doubted my word, he questioned my
honor, he asked to see the money; but I refused to show him the money,--I was indignant, outraged;
but I have it here,--here!" slapping his breast-pocket, "and I am ready to show it to you."
I declined; he persisted; until at last, afraid of the impression he might make upon my friend
Winslow, who was present, I consented. But he only talked the louder and the faster, without
producing the money; and when I grew serious, and insisted on seeing it, he acknowledged that
he hadn't it with him!

"Where is it, sir?" said I.

"At my lodgings."

"And how long will it take you to produce it?"

"Ten minutes."

"Very well,"--taking out my watch,--"I will wait fifteen, and my friend here will stay with
me, and be a witness."

Away went the General, and, to my amazement, I must acknowledge, within the fifteen minutes
he returned, bringing with him a cigar-box containing about five hundred dollars in bills and
specie, which I counted.

Here was a narrow escape,--a matter of life or death to him, certainly, if not to me. But where
had he got the money? He was very poor, judging by appearances. The lecturing was over for
a time, and there was no field for conjecture. To this hour the whole affair is a mystery.
Unlikely as it was that he should have obtained it from his sister, there seemed to be no other
explanation possible.

Other perplexing and contradictory evidence for and against the General began to appear. I
never saw him on horseback but once, and then I was frightened for him. As a general, he ought,
of course, to know how to ride. As a native Hungarian, he must have been born to the saddle,
if not in it. Nevertheless, I trembled for him, though the creature he had mounted was far
from being either vicious or spirited; and then, too, when he tried waltzing, he reminded me,
and others I am afraid, of "the man a-mowing."

On the other hand, he was well-bred and self-possessed, full of accurate information, and never
obtrusive. And here I am reminded of another singular circumstance, which went far in confirmation
of the story he told. He gave J. S. Buckingham, Esq., M. P., whom I had known in London as
the Oriental traveller, a letter to me, in which he speaks of him as a member of the British-Polish
Committee in London,--thereby endangering the whole superstructure he had been rearing with
so much care. Mr. Buckingham wrote me from New York, but failed to see me.

Worn out and wellnigh discouraged by these persecutions, the General now left us, and went
to New York, from which place he wrote me, under date of October 9, 1840, as follows. I give
his own orthography, to show that, although acquainted with our language to such a degree that
he was able to lecture in it, as Kossuth did, and to speak it with uncommon readiness, he must
have learnt it by ear, like many others with which he was familiar enough for ordinary purposes.

"One of my last occupation upon American soil is one of a painful, and at the same times pleasant
nature, to wit, to address you, my noble, my chivalerouse, my excellent friend. My God revard
you and may he for the benefit of mankind scater many such persons trought the world--it would
prevent misantropy and it would serve as the best antidote against crimes and deceptions, persecutions
and sufferings. O could you know all what I suffered in my eventful life, you would indead
belive that no romance is equal to reality. But--basta--God is great and merciful, and I never
yit and I hope never will find occassion to doubt the wundaful ways of his mercy.... Perhaps
no times since I cam to America, I had occassion for more patience than during the first days
of my arrival in N. Y. Harshed by law, cut by some friends, findig once more by European new
a change in Greece, with my funds low, I began indeed to feel bitterly my sad fate--when by
one of this suden fricks which I offen prouve that man must never despair all changed quit
casualy it was raported to the German Association that I am her--immediately I was invited
to ther mittings, the French Lafayette Club followed suit, and yesterday evning your humble
servant was by acclamation apointed Vice-President of the General Union of all the forign assotiations
of the city of New York (the German Tepcanoe Club 30 pers. excepted)....

"I am very sorry that I cannot tell you where I go--I sail in the cliper armed brig Fairfield
for the West India unter very avantageouse circumstances a eccelent pay rang and emoluments
you may guess the rest be assured it is a honorable a very honorable employment. My next for
the South wia Havanna or New York or New Orleans will inform you of the rest."

Accompanying this letter was a slip from one of the large New York dailies confirming his story,
and reporting the resolutions passed at a great public meeting, of which A. Sarony was President
and Chairman, John Bratish, Vice-President, and George Sonne, Secretary. "The call of the meeting
was read and adopted," says the report, "when General Bratish addressed the assemblage in the
English, French, and German languages, in the most patriotic and eloquent manner. His speech
was received with enthusiastic and repeated applause."

And here for a long season we lost sight of the General, though two or three circumstances
occurred, each trivial in itself, but all tending to give a new aspect to the affair, just
before he left us, we had a small party at our house, where, among other amusements, a game
called "The Four Elements" was introduced. When it was all over, and our visitors were gone,
a costly handkerchief, with a lace border, was not to be found. It had been last seen in the
hands of General Bratish. Having no idea that, if he had pocketed it by mistake, it would not
be returned, we waited patiently,--very patiently,--supposing he might have thrown aside his
company dress-coat without examining the pockets, and that when he put it on again the handkerchief
would be forthcoming, of course. But no,--nothing was heard of it, until one evening at a lecture
my wife suddenly caught my arm, and, pointing to a white handkerchief the General was flourishing
within reach, said, "There's Aunt Mary's handkerchief, now!"--"Nonsense, my dear!"--"It is,
I tell you; I can see where he has ripped off the lace." I thought her beside herself; but
still--why the sudden substitution of a large red Spitalfields for the white handkerchief?
"Perhaps," said I to my wife,--"perhaps the handkerchief was not marked, and he did not know
where to find the owner."--"But it was marked, and he knows the owner as well as you do," was
the reply. Of course, I had nothing more to say; and so I laughed the exhibition off, as a
sort of pas de mouchoir, like that which brought Forrest into a controversy with Macready.

And then something else happened. I missed the only copy I had in the world of "Niagara and
Goldau," which he had borrowed of me and returned, with emphasis; and many months after he
had disappeared, I received a volume of poems from the heart of Germany, entitled, "Der Heimathgruss,
Eine Pfingstgabe von Mathilde von Tabouillot, geborene Giester," published at Wesel, 1840,
with a letter from the lady herself, thanking me with great warmth and earnestness for my pamphlet
in defence of General Bratish. Putting that and that together, I began to have a suspicion
that my copy of "Niagara and Goldau" had been presented to the authoress by my friend, the
General,--perhaps in the name of the author.

Yet more. While these little incidents were accumulating and seething and simmering, I received
a letter from Louis Bratish, in beautiful French, dated Birmingham, 7th October, 1841, in which
he thanked me most heartily for what I had done as the friend of his brother, "John Bratish,"--withholding
the "General,"--and begging me to consider it as coming from the family; and about the same
time, another letter, and the last I ever received, from the General himself. It was dated
"Torrington House, near London, 12th October, 1841," and contained the following passages:--

"I cannot account for the very extraordinary silence in speite of all my request that you would
at leas be so kind as to inform me if you realy don't wish to hear more from me. I know your
Hart too well not to be persuaded that it must be some mistake or some intrigue.

"At last my family begin to understand how much they did wrong me and I have the pleasure to
enclose you a letter of my yungest brother, which is now at the house of Messrs. Toniola brothers,
a volunteer partner, to learn the english....

"Mr. Josua Dodge, late Special Agent of the U. S. in Germany, is returning in one or two days
to America; this gentleman in consequence of his mission crossed and recrossed all Germany
and Belgium. I met him in Germany; he was present at Stuttgard in a most critical moment, when,
denunced by the Germanic Federation (in the name of Austria) I was in iminent peril. He acted
as a true American, boldly stepped forward, asked the way and the werfore and united with my
firmness, the American passports where respected, and Mr. Dodge succeded to get an official
acknowledgment that nothing was known against my moral character, and they took refuge upon
some little irregularity in the passport.... He, my friends and my family wished very much
that I should at lease for some times rethurn to America (pour reson bien juste) but the recollection
is too bitter yet.... Several Americans are now visiting my sister and her husband in Belgium--among
them Mr. Bishop of Cont. and Mr. Rowly, C. S. of N. Y.--What would I give to see J. N and his
amable family!...

"My address is Monsieur Le General Bratish (Eliovich), raccommandé à Mons. Latard, Vervois
Belgique.

"P. S. Great excitement at London. The Morning Chronicle is out upon me for having done I don't
know what in North America and Germany. All fidle-stik. I send you the paper to see how eassy
John Bull is gulled. I could send you some important news. Attention!!! keep your powder dray!"

Nothing more was heard of our mysterious General until a letter fell into my hands, purporting
to be written by his brother Luigi. It was in choice Italian, and dated Birmingham, 16th April,
1842, charging the "Caro Fratello" with having deceived him about Mr. Everett, complaining
of his behavior to Dr. Sleigh and others who had befriended him; telling him that Dr. Sleigh,
to whom he referred, doubted his Spanish commission, and believed him to have been a member
of the "Hunter's Association,"--a band of horse-thieves in Canada,--and signifying, in language
not to be misunderstood, that the family had given up all hope of him.

The next information we had was that the General had turned up at Havre, and was about being
married to the daughter of a wealthy banker, and carried a commission as Major-General from
the Governor of Maine! And then, after a lapse of two years, that he had been travelling with
a British nobleman, whose baggage he had run away with,--that he was arrested for the offence,
and tried in Malta, I do not know with what result; but I have now before me a supplement of
the Malta Times of October 9, 1844, in Italian, Spanish, and English, wherein he refers to
the testimonials of my friend, Albert Smith, Ex-M. C, and Levi Cutter, Mayor of Portland; complains
bitterly of the late Mr. Carr, Minister of the United States at Constantinople; and says, among
other things, what of itself were enough to show that he had claimed to be a General of the
State of Maine, and thereby settling the question most conclusively and forever. His language
is: "To one charge of Mr. Everett, I plead guilty; to wit, to have usurped, or succeeded to
gain the good opinion of respectable people in the United States, and here I am glad, at the
same time, to put Mr. Everett's mind at rest; he thinks it possible that I may be a General
of the State of Maine, but he admits only the possibility, and expresses the hope that it may
not be so,--this, after the pretension to know my birthplace, life, death, and miracles, and
an assertion on his part to have had, or seen, a correspondence with the Executive of Maine,
in my regard, is very diplomatic--very!--but his Excellency may be easy on this head. I do
not share now the military glory and honor of fellowship with that very numerous body of generals
of the United States Militia; and if evidence may be produced that I was attended by a staff,
I assure his Excellency, that it was only to have my boots cleaned by a captain, to be shaved
by a major, to be helped by a colonel, and to get my meals at the private personal head-quarters
of a Gineral at one dollar per day."

And here I stop. From that day to this, nothing has been heard of General Bratish; but I should
not be surprised to have him reappear, as if he had risen from the dead, in some new character,
and so managing as to deceive the very elect. No such pretender has appeared since Cagliostro;
and nobody ever succeeded so well in misleading public opinion, and embroiling so many persons
of consideration, both in this country and in Europe, not excepting the Chevalier d'Éon, and
the Princess Cariboo. Many other strange things might be related of Bratish, as, for example,
his great speech in the Hungarian Diet, reported in the Allgemeine Zeitung,--the most impudent
forgery of our day. But this paper is already longer than I intended; and I have only to add,
that I have reason to believe now that he was indeed a native of Trieste, and that Colonel
Stille and Mr. McIlvaine were right in saying what they did of him generally, though wrong
in many of the particulars upon which they chiefly relied.

A TOUR IN THE DARK.

One February evening, more than a year ago, after a drive of fourteen miles over a lonely Kentucky
road, I drew rein in front of a huge, rambling wooden building, standing solitary in the midst
of the forest.

There was no village in sight to account for the presence of so large a structure, no adjacent
farms, and, except a little patch in front of the house, no fields,--nothing but the solemn
woods which nearly shut it in on every side.

I did not ask if this was the Mammoth Cave Hotel. I knew it without asking.

Here I was, then, at last,--about to see what I had desired to see ever since I was a boy!

But delay frequently comes with the certainty of accomplishing any long-cherished desire; and
though I had driven with a hasty whip from the railway station fourteen miles away, and though
the hotel proprietor offered to procure me a guide that evening, my haste to see the cave was
unaccountably over. I ordered a fire in my room, and concluded to wait until morning.

It was too early in the season for the usual summer visitors, and I found myself the sole guest
in this big, lonesome caravansary, that looked as though a dozen old-fashioned Dutch farm-houses
had been placed in the midst of a wood-lot, and then connected by the roofs, the whole forming
one straggling, weather-stained, labyrinthine building, full of little nests of rooms, high-pitched
gables, cumbrous outside chimney-stacks, cavernous fireplaces, and low, wide corridors open
at either end, where were uncertain shadows, and draughts of damp air that whispered and moaned
all night long.

In the evening, as I sat before the blazing pile of logs in the fireplace, some one knocked
at my door, and a negro servant looked in. Would I like to see the guide?

"Certainly. What is his name?"

"Nicholas, sah, Nicholas! But we all calls him Ole Nick."

Rather an ominous name, to be sure! but then, if one goes to the regions below, what guide
so appropriate?

On presentation, his Majesty proved to be an interesting black man, considerably past middle
age; wrinkled, as none but a genuine negro ever becomes; a short, broad, strong man, with a
grizzled beard and mustache, quiet but steady eyes, grave in his demeanor, and concise in his
conversation. He tells me of two routes by which I can make a tour through his dominions. The
shortest one will require six hours to travel, and at the farthest will take me to the banks
of the river Styx, six miles from the entrance to the cave. The other route will take the whole
day, and will lead as far as the so-called "Maelström,"--a singular pit, a hundred and seventy-five
feet deep,--and place nine miles of gloom between me and this outer world. And with these facts
to be juggled and distorted in ridiculous combinations with remembrances of many persons and
places in the vagaries of dreams, I went to bed and to sleep.

As the sun came up, we went down,--my guide and I,--down a rocky path along the side of a ravine
that grew narrower and deeper until we came to a dilapidated house where the ravine seemed
to end. Stepping upon the rotting piazza of this old house and facing "right about," there
opened before us, as broad and lofty as the entrance to some ancient Egyptian temple, the mouth
of the cave. From where we stood, a path, as wide as an ordinary city sidewalk and as smooth,
sloped gently downward through the portal.

Turning to the right to avoid the drip of a limpid stream,--that falls over the entrance like
a perpetual libation to Pluto,--a few minutes' walk places us many hundred feet vertically
beneath the surface, and in the "Rotunda," an enlargement of the cave, which looks about as
large as the interior of Trinity Church, but is in reality larger; being quite as lofty, and
measuring at its greatest diameter a hundred and seventy-five feet.

Here, as we paused to look, with our flaring lamps poised above our heads, a strange squeaking
noise was heard, which seemed to come from everywhere and nowhere in particular. I glanced
inquiringly at my guide, in answer to which he simply replied, "Bats," and pointed to the walls,
where, on closer inspection, I found these creatures clinging by thousands, literally blackening
the wall, and hanging in festoons a foot or two in length. The manner of forming these festoons
was curious enough: three or four bats having first taken hold of some sharp projecting ledge
with their hindmost claws, and hanging thereby with their heads downward, others had seized
their leathery wings at the second joint, and they too, hanging with downward heads, had offered
their wings as holding-places for still others; and so the unsightly pendent mass had grown,
until in some instances it contained as many as twenty or thirty bats. The wonder seemed that
four or five pairs of little claws not so large as those of a mouse could sustain a weight
that must have been in some instances as much as three pounds.

The mysterious influence of the approaching spring had penetrated even into these abodes of
darkness, and aroused in the bats a little life after their long hibernation; and their weak,
plaintive squeak, which had something impish in it withal, came from every shadowy recess,
and from the dark vault overhead. This "Rotunda" should have been called the "Bower of Bats."

As they all hung too high to reach by other means, I flung my stick at random upward against
the wall, and brought down two of the black masses, that writhed helpless upon the stony floor
of the cave. Poor, palpitating things, unable to loose their clutch upon each other's wings,
it was hard to say whether they were more disgusting or pitiful. What Eshcol clusters these,
to bear back from this Canaan of darkness, saying, "This is the fruit of it!"

Such an immense number of bats had harbored and died here from time immemorial, that more than
a hundred acres of the earthy floor of the cave had, from their decomposing remains, become
impregnated with nitre; and during the years 1812 to 1814, a party of saltpetre-makers took
up their residence here. They made great vats in the cave, in which they lixiviated the impregnated
earth, and by wooden pipes conveyed it to a place where they boiled the water drawn from the
vats. Their rude mechanical contrivances are standing yet, in the same positions in which they
were left so long ago; and so dry and pure is the air of the cave, that, though more than half
a century has passed, these wooden pipes and vats show no more indication of decay than they
did when first put in. In one place my guide dug up from the clayey floor--where it was their
custom to feed the oxen employed in drawing the materials to and fro--some corn-cobs, very
dry and light, but as perfect as though they were only a few months old.

The footprints of the oxen, made in the earth that was then moist, are plainly visible in many
places; and the clay has since become almost as hard as stone, so that I found it difficult
to make any impression in it with the point of my pocket-knife.

A few minutes' walk brought us in front of the "Giant's Coffin," an enormous rock forty feet
in length, which has fallen from the ceiling. The resemblance to a coffin is so strangely exact,
that, having heard mention of it before coming in, I recognized it at the first glance. The
upper part of the rock is composed of a stratum whiter than the rest, and gives it the appearance
of having a border of white ornamentation around it, just below the lid. It rests upon a gigantic
bier about ten feet high, and a little longer than the coffin, and the effect is as though
some kingly son of Anak were lying in state in this huge sepulchral vault.

Near at hand is a cluster of objects, not carved out by the accidents of time or the long attrition
of subterranean rivers, as is the case with almost everything else in the cave, but shaped
by human hands into a mournful resemblance to cottages; the likeness being all the more pathetic
when one learns the fact that for many months a number of benighted human beings made their
home here, under the delusion that the air of the cave, which is chemically pure and dry, would
cure their pulmonary diseases; and that here, like plants shut out from the generous, fostering
sun, they paled and died.

The appearance of those who came out after two or three months' residence in the cave is described
as frightful. "Their faces," says one who saw them, "were entirely bloodless, eyes sunken,
and pupils dilated to such a degree that the iris ceased to be visible; so that, no matter
what the original color of the eye might have been, it appeared entirely black."

These cottages, if by a great stretch of courtesy I may call them such, are very small, consisting
each of but one room about ten feet square; they had been built of stones collected in the
cave, and laid loosely in the wall without mortar; they had fireplaces and chimneys, good wooden
floors, and doors, but no windows, as there was neither light to let in nor prospect to view
without. As there was neither rain nor snow fall, neither midday heat nor dew of night, beneath
that stony cope, roofs also were useless; so that the structures were only cells that strongly
reminded one of sepulchres. I can conceive of nothing more melancholy than the existence of
the seven or eight consumptives, who I am told occupied these ante mortem tombs at one time
about fifteen years ago. Three died there, and every one of the others who had resided in the
cave for a period of two months died within two or three weeks after coming out.

Near to these monuments of ignorance and despair, I noticed a monument of another sort, and
of later date,--a tribute to one of the most gallant and genial of men, in whom it was fully
demonstrated that "the bravest are the tenderest." It was a pyramidal pile, about eight feet
high, of carefully selected stones, laid without mortar, but with mathematical precision; and
on one stone near the top was scratched a name dear to every soldier's heart,--"McPherson."

The cells where the living died, and this pile which tells how the memory of the dead yet lives,
are the last objects on our route that have any association with the things of this outer world;
these are the pillars that mark the beginning of a realm devoid of human association,--its
Pillars of Hercules, beyond which is a silent waste whose darkness breeds the wildest mysteries.

Walking continuously through the gloom, one loses to some extent the idea of progression. Here
he can get no look ahead, no backward view. He is the centre of a little circle of light, beyond
which is immeasurable darkness, whence objects seem to come to him like apparitions, changing
form as the first and last rays of light fall upon them, as though the shape in which they
appear under the full light of the lamp were only some disguise of assumed innocence, which
they cast off as they glide silently into the dark again, to take on some semblance too awful
for mortal eyes. Farther and farther we went along these arched, crypt-like ways; passing frequently
through lofty chambers where the roof could not be discovered, each with some fanciful and
often inappropriate name assigned to it, until we came at length to what looked like a window
in the side wall of the cave. Peering through this, and holding my lamp high over my head,
I could see neither roof nor sides nor bottom,--only the wall in which was the window through
which I looked. Upward it was lost in the darkness, and from my breast it descended, perpendicular
as a plummet line, until it vanished in the gulf below, from which arose a sound of dripping
water. This, my guide informed me, was "Gorin's Dome." Taking then from his haversack a Bengal
light, he ignited it and threw it into the dark void. The sulphurous light shot up and up into
a dome unlike anything built by human hands, unless it might be the interior of some tremendous
tower, eighty feet in width, and nearly two hundred in height, which the beholder viewed from
without, looking inwards through a window placed at two thirds of the entire height from the
bottom.

The inaccessible floor of this place is nearly level, and the walls strictly perpendicular
from base to summit; the whole cavern having been hollowed out by the constant dripping of
water holding carbonic acid in solution, which cuts the rock as ordinary water channels the
ice of a glacier or the mural face of an iceberg into a semblance of columns, and sometimes
into the folds of an immense curtain.

The brief light fell upon the distant floor; flashed up once, bringing into strong relief every
salient angle in the wonderful walls, and then died out; the awful prospect vanishing like
a nightmare vision, and leaving nothing to the sense but the sound of the water dripping into
the depths below. The light had burned only half a minute; but so strange was the scene, that
this glimpse sufficed to photograph it indelibly in my memory.

Gorin's Dome is not the largest of this class of sub-cavities in the cave, being smaller than
Mammoth Dome; but it is the first of its class that the tourist sees, and it is viewed from
so singular a stand-point that it makes the most startling impression.

Five minutes' farther walk brought us to a wooden footbridge,--a narrow, shaky contrivance,
with a treacherous footing and a slender hand-rail. Here the bottom of the cave seemed to have
dropped out, and the roof to have gone in search of it; and but for the dim glimpse of the
rock on the other side one might have suspected that this bridge would launch him into that
ungeographical locality called, in the old Norse mythology, "Ginnunga Gap,"--a place where
there was neither side, edge, nor bottom to anything.

The vault overhead is called "Minerva's Dome"; the gulf below is called the "Side-Saddle Pit,"
though I failed to discover any degree of appropriateness in the odd name.

Standing in the middle of the bridge, my guide flung one of his Bengal lights far upward, in
the midst of the slow-falling drops that had already carved out this tremendous well and were
still making it larger. The light turned them for an instant into a shower of diamonds; then
down it fell, down, down! As in its descent it passed the bridge on which we stood, the shadows
of our two figures rushed up the opposite wall, like a pair of demons scared out of their abode
by the hissing flame; and Nick, the guide, as he leaned over, looking downward after it,--every
one of the innumerable wrinkles in his black face made more distinct, with his white beard
and mustache, and the whites of his eyes seeming to glow in the blue elfish light,--was a caricature,
half grotesque, almost terrible, of Satan himself.

Minerva's Dome and Side-Saddle Pit, both being one place and formed by the same dripping water,
correspond to Gorin's Dome and the pit beneath it; that part which has been hollowed out above
the roof of the cave being called the dome, and the part below the floor of the cave the pit.
The only difference between the two is that in the case of Gorin's Dome the dripping waters
have bored their huge shaft on one side of the track of the cave, only just piercing the wall
of it in one spot, to make the window through which it is viewed; while in the case of the
Side-Saddle Pit the vertical shaft cuts directly across the track of the cave, or, to speak
more correctly, across the tunnel which was once the bed of a subterranean river, but which
is now a broad, smooth, dry path.

The topography of this underground realm may be divided into three departments, as follows:--

First,--as being greatest in extent,--the "avenues," or tunnels, which present conclusive evidence
of having once been the channels of a subterranean stream, whose waters, having some peculiar
solvent property, wore their bed lower and lower in the rock, until they cut through into some
lower opening, through which they were drawn off, leaving the old channels dry. Imagine one
of the narrow, crooked streets in the old part of Boston, spanned by a continuous stone archway
from the summits of the buildings on either hand; then close with solid masonry every window
and loop-hole by which a ray of light could struggle in, and you have for proportions and sinuosity
not a bad semblance of these tunnels, which constitute four fifths of the extent of the Mammoth
Cave.

The second and next largest department is that of the "chambers." These are places in the general
course of the former river where the roof fell in before the withdrawal of the waters, opening
great spaces upward; the fallen mass forming a sort of island in the centre of the stream,
and crowding the waters on either side of it against the walls of the cave, so that they were
worn out to twice the average width, and finally itself disappearing under the combined action
of the current and the solvent properties of the water.

The air in all these tunnels and chambers is remarkably dry and pure. Wood seems never to decay
here; as is instanced in the wooden pipes and vats of the saltpetre-makers, upon which the
lapse of a half-century has not had any visible effect.

The general width of the tunnels or avenues is about forty or fifty feet, and the average height
about thirty feet; but this uniformity is broken every few hundred yards by chambers, varying
in width from eighty to two hundred feet, and in height from seventy to two hundred and fifty
feet. The floor is formed in some places of sand, but generally of indurated mud, so hard that
it is impossible to make any indentation in it with the heel of the boot, and remarkably even
and smooth, so that almost anywhere one can walk with as much ease as on city sidewalks. The
walls also are clean and smooth, as in the arched crypts of some mighty cathedral. A cross
section of almost any one of these tunnels would show an elliptic outline, the vertical diameter
being the shortest, and the bottom being filled with indurated mud or sand to a sufficient
depth to make a level floor.

The third division or class of openings is that of the "domes" and "pits." These were formed
by the same kind of agency as the tunnels and chambers, namely, by the action of water holding
carbonic acid in solution; but acting in a different manner, and at a period long after the
subterranean river had ceased to flow through its tunnels.

The solvent acid of the water must be acquired in percolating through the several hundreds
of feet of superincumbent earth and sandstone, as there is but one of these domes, "Sandstone
Dome," that extends upward to the sandstone. The solvent water then, after finding its way
into the vertical crevices of the limestone, gradually rounded them out like wells, until the
pieces which occasionally fell from the top formed a sort of floor. Through the interstices
of this floor, the dissolved substance of the rock is carried into some deeper and yet undiscovered
cavities beneath. The floor itself gradually sinks, the domes grow higher, and the walls recede
as long as the water continues to drip into them.

It is not unreasonable to suppose that the substratum of limestone in all the country for many
miles in the vicinity is perforated with these tremendous shafts; as those which are seen in
the cave are only such as happened to be in the course of the tunnels composing the Mammoth
Cave. It is not improbable that there are many others on every side, close to the line of the
tunnels, but not yet connected with them.

In any one of the above-mentioned departments, the description of one place answers for most
others, except in dimensions. The following are a few out of many hundreds of measurements
taken in as many different places:--

The "Rotunda," the first chamber from the entrance of the cave, is about one hundred feet high,
and one hundred and seventy-five in diameter.

The "Methodist Church," eighty feet in diameter, and forty in height.

"Wright's Rotunda" is four hundred feet in its shortest diameter, being nearly circular; the
roof seems perfectly level, and is about forty-five feet high.

"Kinney's Arena" is a hundred feet in diameter, and is fifty feet high.

"Proctor's Arcade" is one hundred feet in width and three quarters of a mile in length. The
walls, which are about forty-five feet high, are nearly perpendicular throughout the whole
length of the arcade, joining the roof nearly at right angles, and are so smooth that they
look like hammer-dressed stone.

"Silliman's Avenue" is a mile and a half in length and about forty feet in height, its width
varying from twenty to two hundred feet.

"Shelby's Dome" and the pit beneath it are two hundred and thirty-five feet in height, and
about twenty-five in diameter.

"Mammoth Dome" is two hundred and fifty feet high, and nearly one hundred in diameter.

"Lucy's Dome," the highest in the cave, is sixty feet in diameter, and three hundred in height.

Nine miles from the entrance of the cave is the "Maelström," a dry pit or well, one hundred
and seventy-five feet deep, and about twenty in diameter; and from the bottom of this shaft
may be seen the openings to three other avenues, which lead farther into this Plutonian labyrinth
than mortal foot has ever trod.

Although the distance of nine miles is about as far as tourists usually get from the entrance,
that is by no means the measure of its extent, but only the extent of the direct route; there
being a number of other tunnels branching off from it on either side, some of which connect
with it again at a distance of several miles, and some of which have not been explored to their
connection, if they have any.

The total length of all the explored avenues is estimated at over one hundred miles. If a single
day's experience in the cave were sufficient ground for offering an opinion, I should say that
this was a large over-estimate; but I have no doubt that, like all other great works of both
art and nature, it grows upon the sense of the beholder. But even setting down its extent at
half the foregoing estimate, none can tread these hollow chambers, thinking of others unexplored,
and extending not only from that distant nine-mile-station, but on every hand, into the unknown,
without a feeling of awe and fear.

Thus on and on through the echoing avenues, where the reverberation of our footsteps seemed
to follow stealthily far behind us, through chamber and hall, where my guide in the advance
flung up his lights, revealing for an instant the grim and distant vaults,--through "Star Chamber,"
five hundred feet long, seventy in width, and sixty in height, "Cloud Room," a quarter of a
mile in length, sixty feet in height, "Deserted Chamber," "River Hall," "Revellers' Hall,"
"The Great Walk,"--through all these, and a dozen more, we wandered, until, after two hours'
walk, and at a distance of four and a half miles from the entrance to the cave, I paused upon
the muddy banks of the "Styx," and, stooping, dipped up in my hands a draught from its cold,
sunless waters.

Here my guide would willingly have played Charon to my Ulysses, but as no one had penetrated
thus far into the cave for several months, the boat used to carry visitors over, and to voyage
up and down the short river (only a hundred and fifty yards in length), had sunk, and we found
it impossible to raise it.

The river is about twenty-five feet in width, its course crossing that of the cave at right
angles, and its channel being simply another avenue or tunnel on a little lower level than
the one by which the visitor approaches it.

In this stream, as well as in "Echo River," are found the famous eyeless fish. We dipped in
vain, for a long time, in hopes of capturing some of these. At last I was fortunate enough
to secure one tiny specimen, about two inches long, which was shaped like other minnows, but
had no eyes, and was perfectly white, there being not the slightest shade of coloring on the
back. The upper part of its head was as translucent as agate, through which could be seen opaque
spots imbedded in the head where the base of the eye-sockets should have been. The specimen
I obtained was one of the smallest, as the guide told me these fishes frequently attained the
length of six or seven inches.

I secured also an eyeless crawfish about three inches in length. This forlorn little creature,
like the fish, was entirely colorless. It had two slightly protuberant spots in its head where
the eyes should be; but they were dull and opaque, and did not seem to differ in texture from
the rest of its body, which had not the translucence of that of the fish, but looked as though
carved out of white marble.

The fish are found also in "Lake Lethe," a quarter of a mile from the Styx, as well as in "Echo
River," the largest and most interesting body of water in the cave. This last flows out of
a tunnel which has such a low roof that the volume of water nearly fills it, and from here
to where it enters the rocks again is three quarters of a mile. Here the blind white creatures
that inhabit its dark, slow-flowing waters are more plentiful, but are as unlike those nimble,
glistening fellows which inhabit the streams of the outer world, as the cavern's atmosphere
of darkness and death is different from our atmosphere of light and life. They refuse to bite
at any bait; they move sluggishly, and, when caught in a net, flop languidly, and die. The
only food they are known to have is the smaller ones of their own kind; and, oddest of all,
they, as well as the crawfish, give birth to their young alive, instead of spawning the eggs
to be hatched by the sun. Last and remotest of these sunless streams is "Roaring River," the
margin of whose solemn waters is nine miles from the entrance of the cave. This should be Acheron,
which hated the light, and ran sighing down into a cave; for from this stream too comes a perpetual
moan.

The region where the several rivers mentioned are grouped is lower than the rest of the cave,
and much more gloomy in appearance than the high, dry chambers through which one passes in
coming back toward the entrance.

I was somewhat disappointed in the display of stalactites and other similar formations of the
protocarbonate of lime found in the cave. For a number of years I had been familiar with mines
and mining operations in the lead-mining districts of Illinois, Wisconsin, and Missouri, and
had there seen some of the most beautiful, though not the largest, specimens of calcareous
spar known to exist. The lime in these localities being in most instances perfectly pure, the
stalactites, to the length of three feet sometimes, are as free from coloring as icicles. Sometimes
the miners' drift (which compared with the Mammoth Cave is as a rabbit's burrow to a railway
tunnel) is opened into small, low-roofed caves; and in these, in addition to the translucent
stalactites, there are little hollows in the floor covered with thin sheets of protocarbonate
of lime, no thicker than a pane of window-glass, and as white as snow. From beneath these the
water has sunk away, leaving a hollow space, and giving the whole precisely the appearance
of those little pools which every one has noticed when a muddy road suddenly congeals: the
pools of water freeze over, and the water disappears, leaving the ice only a shell over a cavity.

Nothing of this kind, however, is found in the Mammoth Cave. The lime of which the stalactites
are formed being mixed with various oxides and other impurities, they are all of a dark brown,
or gray, or muddy color. With the exception of some stalactite columns in the "Gothic Arcade,"
which form a fine alcove called the "Gothic Chapel," there are no stalactites of extraordinary
size. There is a stalactite mass (or was some years ago) in "Uhrig's Cave," in the suburbs
of the city of St. Louis, about twelve feet in height and four feet in diameter, which exceeds
in size anything I saw in the Mammoth Cave.

The gypsum or alabaster flowers are the crowning beauty of the Mammoth Cave. These are an entirely
different formation from the stalactites, being formed only in a perfectly dry atmosphere,
while the stalactites are necessarily formed in a moist one.

The gypsum is formed by crystallization, and in that process exerts the same expansive force
as ice. Wherever it forms in crevices it fractures the rocks that enclose it, and protrudes
from the crevice; its own bulk divides, or splits, and curves open, and outward, with much
more tenacity than ice. It seems to have a fibrous texture, in the direction of which the split
always opens.

I found in the "Snowball Room" and in a large chamber called "Cleveland's Cabinet," a beautiful
display of these flowers. In the Snowball Room, the likeness to winter appears again, in the
knots strongly resembling snowballs stuck all over the ceiling. And in Cleveland's Cabinet
I found some singularly beautiful specimens of alabaster formations. One kind seemed to be
literally growing from the ceiling as a vegetable would, and looked more than anything else
like short, thick stalks of celery. If an ordinary stalk of celery were split, so that its
natural tendency to curl over backward could be freely exercised, it would give a very good
idea of the shape of some of the gypsum flowers, except that these are not often longer than
four inches, and in that length frequently curl so as to make a complete circle. They have
the same fibrous appearance as celery, and are as white as snow.

When five or six of these stalks--if I may call them so--start from one point, and curve outward
in different directions from a common centre, they frequently form beautiful rosettes. Imagine
one of the common tiger-lilies, which, instead of its thin, red curving petals, has stalks
of celery, curving as much, but broken off square at the ends; then imagine the celery to be
of the purest conceivable white; and you have a tolerable conception of one of these beautiful
alabaster flowers.

This alabaster growth is found only in a few places throughout the cave; when it is in chambers
or spaces in which the atmosphere is very dry, it invariably has a beautiful fibrous texture
like wood or celery, and the curved form; but if the atmosphere is damp, it forms on the ceiling
in round nodules, from two to three inches in diameter, as in the Snowball Room.

In the Gothic Arcade there is a sort of colonnade formed along the side of the tunnel by the
meeting of the down-growing stalactites and the upward-growing stalagmites; the two together
having formed slender columns of spar, from three to six feet in height. One group of these,
about eight feet high, which is the most beautiful in the cave, is called the Gothic Chapel.
In many of the formations, it is very difficult to trace even the remotest resemblance to the
objects after which they have been named; but in one instance, that of a stalactite called
the "Elephant's Head," the resemblance is remarkable.

Ordinarily it is the custom for one guide to conduct a party of four or five persons into the
cave. I dislike over-officious guides and the hackneyed comparisons and wordy wonder of gabbling
tourists in grand and solemn places like this; therefore, in the morning, before starting,
I congratulated myself that I should be alone, with the exception of the guide, who fortunately
seemed thoroughly imbued with the spirit of the place in which he had spent the greater portion
of his time for seventeen years.

He was as grave and taciturn as some cave-keeping anchorite. During our inward progress, he
had carefully pointed out every place and object of interest, and hurled his blue-lights here
and there into domes and pits and cavernous retreats of darkness. But now, on our backward
course, he stalked silently and abstractedly before, though he seemed to listen to every step
of my feet; for, if I paused or made a misstep, he instantly looked round.

At last he turned, and, looking me curiously in the face, asked whether I thought I should
be afraid if left in the dark there a little while. Some people could not bear it, he said,
and one gentleman who had consented to the ordeal of darkness had been half crazed by it, and
when the guide, who had withdrawn and concealed himself, with his light, returned, the traveller
tried first to run away into the darkness, and then, under some strange hallucination, fired
his pistol in the guide's face.

I had a suspicion that the effect of the obscurity was exaggerated; I was disposed, moreover,
to "try the dark," from curiosity. But I must acknowledge that, when the guide, with that doubting
look, repeated his inquiry, I hesitated, asking, "Is there any danger? and from what?"

"Nobody knows, massa," said he seriously; "only some people's nerve can't stan' it, dat 's all."

The mention of that odious word, "nerve" sounded so much like the familiar solicitation, "Try
your nerves, gentlemen?" from the electrical-machine man,--who is found on the curbstone of
some thoroughfare in every city,--that for one brief instant the prestige of the great cave
was gone.

Poh! I thought, so it is only claptrap after all? "Here, take the lamps, all of them, matches
too, and go away so far that I cannot hear you halloo, even at your loudest. I will sit here
until you come back!" So saying, I sat down upon a rock in the Star Chamber; and he, taking
the lights, walked away toward the entrance of the cave.

"So then," I thought, "this is the perfect darkness, the total absence of light, which is seldom
if ever known above ground; for even in the darkest night and the darkest house there are some
wandering rays of light; though they may not be sufficient to enable the eye to distinguish
anything, they are there; they penetrate, reflected in a hundred zigzags, into the darkest
places of the outer world. But here there are miles between me and the utmost limits of their
influence!"

I held my hand before my face, but could not distinguish by sight that it was there. A few
pale, phosphorescent gleams, that seemed to be wandering in the air, I was convinced were only
the remembrances of the optic nerve,--eidolons of the retina; but they seemed to some extent
plastic to my thoughts, and ready to become the subjective creations of the brain, outlined
in the dark. I could conceive then how the brain, excited by fear, or stimulated by emotion,
might multiply these phantasms, moulding them into the likeness of objects and beings that
never had any existence in reality. My sense of hearing, too, seemed preternaturally sharpened;
I could hear the ticking of the watch in my pocket, the throbbing of my own heart, the murmur
of the air in my lungs. I held my breath so that the slightest sound from any other source
than my own organism should not escape me; the ringing vacancy in my ears grew more and more
painful. Not the remotest breath of any sound, except a faint dropping of water in some distant
place! (I could think of none but in that awful place called Gorin's Dome.) It seemed to whisper,
"Hush! hush! hush!" Sometimes I could not hear the dropping; for just the same reason that,
if one listens intently to the ticking of a clock for ten minutes, there are intervals when
his ear cannot detect it, because of its regular monotonous sound.

In such intervals the tympanum of the ear, aching with the dead collapse of its world, made
sounds for itself; and it required the exercise of reason to convince myself, sometimes, that
I did not hear distant babbling voices.

But hark! There is a sound! Not distant, but near! Here!--There! A sound like large, soft feet
treading cautiously. No, not that, but--something breathing. Pshaw! I believe it was only the
sound of my own respiration after all!

I did not exactly "whistle to keep my courage up," but, feeling that I must do something to
assert my vitality, my antagonism to this overpowering dark, I cleared my throat vehemently,
defiantly,--AHEM! AHEM! AHEM!! But it sounded so incongruous, so impertinent I might say, in
the midst of that awful silence! Besides, it woke such queer echoes from unexpected quarters,
that I stopped to listen, and heard the water-drops again in Gorin's Dome, whispering, "Hush!
hush! hush!" And from all the gloomy chambers and tunnels came the echo, breathing, "Hush!
hash! hush!"

It began to be terrifying to think that release from this hell of silence was dependent upon
one man's will, and he too a man I had never seen until within a few hours. Where was he now,
my dark-faced guide? What if he should not be able to find me again in the midst of this hundred
miles of tunnels that look so much alike? What if he should not intend to come? What if--But,
thank Heaven! there he is at last! That is the firm, substantial sound of a mortal footstep;
not those stealthy, phantom steps I seemed to hear before! There too is the distant glinting
of the red lamplight on the sides of the cave! How long it takes him to get here! There he
is at last! Blessed be his black face! how unlike the pale, phosphorescent forms I fancied
just a little while ago! How foolish seem all those dreadful fancies now, so terribly real then!

AN AUTUMN SONG.

    Below the headland with its cedar-plumes
      A lapse of spacious water twinkles keen,
    An ever-shifting play of gleams and glooms
         And flashes of clear green.

    The sumac's garnet pennons where I lie
      Are mingled with the tansy's faded gold;
    Fleet hawks are screaming in the light-blue sky,
         And fleet airs rushing cold.

    The plump peach steals the dying rose's red;
      The yellow pippin ripens to its fall;
    The dusty grapes, to purple fulness fed,
         Droop from the garden-wall.

    And yet, where rainbow foliage crowns the swamp,
      I hear in dreams an April robin sing,
    And memory, amid this Autumn pomp,
         Strays with the ghost of Spring.

BY-WAYS OF EUROPE.

A VISIT TO THE BALEARIC ISLANDS.

I.

As the steamer Mallorca slowly moved out of the harbor of Barcelona, I made a rapid inspection
of the passengers gathered on deck, and found that I was the only foreigner among them. Almost
without exception they were native Majorcans, returning from trips of business or pleasure
to the Continent. They spoke no language except Spanish and Catalan, and held fast to all the
little habits and fashions of their insular life. If anything more had been needed to show
me that I was entering upon untrodden territory, it was supplied by the joyous surprise of
the steward when I gave him a fee. This fact reconciled me to my isolation on board, and its
attendant awkwardness.

I knew not why I should have chosen to visit the Balearic Islands, unless for the simple reason
that they lie so much aside from the highways of travel, and are not represented in the journals
and sketch-books of tourists. If any one had asked me what I expected to see, I should have
been obliged to confess my ignorance; for the few dry geographical details which I possessed
were like the chemical analysis of a liquor wherefrom no one can reconstruct the taste. The
flavor of a land is a thing quite apart from its statistics. There is no special guide-book
for the islands, and the slight notices in the works on Spain only betray the haste of the
authors to get over a field with which they are unacquainted. But this very circumstance, for
me, had grown into a fascination. One gets tired of studying the bill of fare in advance of
the repast. When the sun and the Spanish coast had set together behind the placid sea, I went
to my berth with the delightful certainty that the sun of the morrow, and of many days thereafter,
would rise upon scenes and adventures which could not be anticipated.

The distance from Barcelona to Palma is about a hundred and forty miles; so the morning found
us skirting the southwestern extremity of Majorca,--a barren coast, thrusting low headlands,
of gray rock into the sea, and hills covered with parched and stunted chaparral in the rear.
The twelfth century, in the shape of a crumbling Moorish watch-tower, alone greeted us. As
we advanced eastward into the Bay of Palma, however, the wild shrubbery melted into plantations
of olive, solitary houses of fishermen nestled in the coves, and finally a village, of those
soft ochre-tints which are a little brighter than the soil, appeared on the slope of a hill.
In front, through the pale morning mist which still lay upon the sea, I saw the cathedral of
Palma, looming grand and large beside the towers of other churches, and presently, gliding
past a mile or two of country villas and gardens, we entered the crowded harbor.

Inside the mole there was a multitude of the light craft of the Mediterranean,--xebecs, feluccas,
speronaras, or however they may be termed,--with here and there a brigantine which had come
from beyond the Pillars of Hercules. Our steamer drew into her berth beside the quay, and after
a very deliberate review by the port physician we were allowed to land. I found a porter, Arab
in everything but costume, and followed him through the water-gate into the half-awake city.
My destination was the Inn of the Four Nations, where I was cordially received, and afterwards
roundly swindled, by a French host. My first demand was for a native attendant, not so much
from any need of guide as simply to become more familiar with the people through him; but I
was told that no such serviceable spirit was to be had in the place. Strangers are so rare
that a class of people who live upon them has not yet been created.

"But how shall I find the Palace of the Government, or the monastery of San Domingo, or anything
else?" I asked.

"O, we will give you directions, so that you cannot miss them," said the host; but he laid
before me such a confusion of right turnings and left turnings, ups and downs, that I became
speedily bewildered, and set forth, determined to let the "spirit in my feet" guide me. A labyrinthine
place is Palma, and my first walks through the city were so many games of chance. The streets
are very narrow, changing their direction, it seemed to me, at every tenth step; and whatever
landmark one may select at the start is soon shut from view by the high, dark houses. At first,
I was quite astray, but little by little I regained the lost points of the compass.

After having had the Phoenicians, Greeks, Carthaginians, Romans, Vandals, and Saracens as masters,
Majorca was first made Spanish by King Jaime of Aragon, the Conquistador, in the year 1235.
For a century after the conquest it was an independent kingdom, and one of its kings was slain
by the English bowmen at the battle of Crecy. The Spanish element has absorbed, but not yet
entirely obliterated, the characteristics of the earlier races who inhabited the island. Were
ethnology a more positively developed science, we might divide and classify this confused inheritance
of character; as it is, we vaguely feel the presence of something quaint, antique, and unusual,
in walking the streets of Palma, and mingling with the inhabitants. The traces of Moorish occupation
are still noticeable everywhere. Although the Saracenic architecture no longer exists in its
original forms, its details may be detected in portals, court-yards, and balconies, in almost
every street. The conquerors endeavored to remodel the city, but in doing so they preserved
the very spirit which they sought to destroy.

My wanderings, after all, were not wholly undirected. I found an intelligent guide, who was
at the same time an old acquaintance. The whirligig of time brings about, not merely its revenges,
but also its compensations and coincidences. Twenty-two years ago, when I was studying German
as a boy in the old city of Frankfort, guests from the South of France came to visit the amiable
family with whom I was residing. There were M. Laurens, a painter and a musical enthusiast,
his wife, and Mademoiselle Rosalba, a daughter as fair as her name. Never shall I forget the
curious letter which the artist wrote to the manager of the theatre, requesting that Beethoven's
Fidelio might be given (and it was!) for his own especial benefit, nor the triumphant air with
which he came to us one day, saying, "I have something of most precious," and brought forth,
out of a dozen protecting envelopes, a single gray hair from Beethoven's head. Nor shall I
forget how Madame Laurens taught us French plays, and how the fair Rosalba declaimed André
Chénier to redeem her pawns; but I might have forgotten all these things, had it not been for
an old volume[A] which turned up at need, and which gave me information, at once clear, precise,
and attractive, concerning the streets and edifices of Palma. The round, solid head, earnest
eyes, and abstracted air of the painter came forth distinct from the limbo of things overlaid
but never lost, and went with me through the checkered blaze and gloom of the city.

The monastery of San Domingo, which was the head-quarters of the Inquisition, was spared by
the progressive government of Mendizabal, but destroyed by the people. Its ruins must have
been the most picturesque sight of Palma; but since the visit of M. Laurens they have been
removed, and their broken vaults and revealed torture-chambers are no longer to be seen. There
are, however, two or three buildings of more than ordinary interest. The Casa Consistorial,
or City Hall, is a massive Palladian pile of the sixteenth century, resembling the old palaces
of Pisa and Florence, except in the circumstance that its roof projects at least ten feet beyond
the front, resting on a massive cornice of carved wood with curious horizontal caryatides in
the place of brackets. The rich burnt-sienna tint of the carvings contrasts finely with the
golden-brown of the massive marble walls,--a combination which is shown in no other building
of the Middle Ages. The sunken rosettes, surrounded by raised arabesque borders, between the
caryatides, are sculptured with such a careful reference to the distance at which they must
be seen, that they appear as firm and delicate as if near the spectator's eye.

The Cathedral, founded by the Conquistador, and built upon, at intervals, for more than three
centuries, is not yet finished. It stands upon a natural platform of rock, overhanging the
sea, where its grand dimensions produce the greatest possible effect. In every view of Palma,
it towers solidly above the houses and bastioned walls, and insists upon having the sky as
a background for the light Gothic pinnacles of its flying buttresses. The government has recently
undertaken its restoration, and a new front of very admirable and harmonious design is about
half completed. The soft amber-colored marble of Majorca is enriched in tint by exposure to
the air, and even when built in large, unrelieved masses retains a bright and cheerful character.
The new portion of the cathedral, like the old, has but little sculpture, except in the portals;
but that little is so elegant that a greater profusion of ornament would seem out of place.

Passing from the clear, dazzling day into the interior, one finds himself, at first, in total
darkness; and the dimensions of the nave--nearly three hundred feet in length by one hundred
and forty in height--are amplified by the gloom. The wind, I was told, came through the windows
on the sea side with such force as to overturn the chalices, and blow out the tapers on the
altar, whereupon every opening was walled up, except a rose at the end of the chancel, and
a few slits in the nave, above the side-aisles. A sombre twilight, like that of a stormy day,
fills the edifice. Here the rustling of stoles and the muttering of prayers suggest incantation
rather than worship; the organ has a hollow, sepulchral sound of lamentation; and there is
a spirit of mystery and terror in the stale, clammy air. The place resembles an antechamber
of Purgatory much more than of Heaven. The mummy of Don Jaime II., son of the Conquistador
and first king of Majorca, is preserved in a sarcophagus of black marble. This is the only
historic monument in the Cathedral, unless the stranger chooses to study the heraldry of the
island families from their shields suspended in the chapels.

When I returned to the Four Nations for breakfast, I found at the table a gentleman of Palma,
who invited me to sit down and partake of his meal. For the first time this Spanish custom,
which really seems picturesque and fraternal when coming from shepherds or muleteers in a mountain
inn, struck me as the hollowest of forms. The gentleman knew that I would not accept his invitation,
nor he mine; he knew, moreover, that I knew he did not wish me to accept it. The phrase, under
such conditions, becomes a cheat which offends the sacred spirit of hospitality. How far the
mere form may go was experienced by George Sand, who, having accepted the use of a carriage
most earnestly offered to her by a Majorcan count, found the equipage at her door, it is true,
but with it a letter expressing so much vexation, that she was forced to withdraw her acceptance
of the favor at once, and to apologize for it! I have always found much hospitality among the
common people of Spain, and I doubt not that the spirit exists in all classes; but it requires
some practice to distinguish between empty phrase and the courtesy which comes from the heart.
A people who boast of some special virtue generally do not possess it.

My own slight intercourse with the Majorcans was very pleasant. On the day of my arrival, I
endeavored to procure a map of the island, but none of the bookstores possessed the article.
It could be found in one house in a remote street, and one of the shopmen finally sent a boy
with me to the very door. When I offered money for the service, my guide smiled, shook his
head, and ran away. The map was more than fifty years old, and drawn in the style of two centuries
ago, with groups of houses for the villages, and long files of conical peaks for the mountains.
The woman brought it down, yellow and dusty, from a dark garret over the shop, and seemed as
delighted with the sale as if she had received money for useless stock. In the streets, the
people inspected me curiously, as a stranger, but were always ready to go out of their way
to guide me. The ground-floor being always open, all the features of domestic life and of mechanical
labor are exposed to the public. The housewives, the masters, and apprentices, busy as they
seem, manage to keep one eye disengaged, and no one passes before them without notice. Cooking,
washing, sewing, tailoring, shoemaking, coopering, rope and basket making, succeed each other,
as one passes through the narrow streets. In the afternoon, the mechanics frequently come forth
and set up their business in the open air, where they can now and then greet a country acquaintance
or a city friend or sweetheart.

When I found that the ruins of San Domingo had been removed, and a statue of Isabella II. erected
on the Alameda, I began to suspect that the reign of old things was over in Majorca. A little
observation of the people made this fact more evident. The island costume is no longer worn
by the young men, even in the country; they have passed into a very comical transition state.
Old men, mounted on lean asses or mules, still enter the gates of Palma, with handkerchiefs
tied over their shaven crowns, and long gray locks falling on their shoulders,--with short,
loose jackets, shawls around the waist, and wide Turkish trousers gathered at the knee. Their
gaunt brown legs are bare, and their feet protected by rude sandals. Tall, large-boned, and
stern of face, they hint both of Vandal and of Moslem blood. The younger men are of inferior
stature, and nearly all bow-legged. They have turned the flowing trousers into modern pantaloons,
the legs of which are cut like the old-fashioned gigot sleeve, very big and baggy at the top,
and tied with a drawing-string around the waist. My first impression was, that the men had
got up in a great hurry, and put on their trousers hinder-end foremost. It would be difficult
to invent a costume more awkward and ungraceful than this.

In the city the young girls wear a large triangular piece of white or black lace, which covers
the hair, and tightly encloses the face, being fastened under the chin and the ends brought
down to a point on the breast. Their almond-shaped eyes are large and fine, but there is very
little positive beauty among them. Most of the old country-women are veritable hags, and their
appearance is not improved by the broad-brimmed stove-pipe hats which they wear. Seated astride
on their donkeys, between panniers of produce, they come in daily from the plains and mountains,
and you encounter them on all the roads leading out of Palma. Few of the people speak any other
language than the Mallorquin, a variety of the Catalan, which, from the frequency of the terminations
in ch and tz, constantly suggests the old Provençal literature. The word vitch (son) is both
Celtic and Slavonic. Some Arabic terms are also retained, though fewer, I think, than in Andalusia.

In the afternoon I walked out into the country. The wall, on the land side, which is very high
and massive, is pierced by five guarded gates. The dry moat, both wide and deep, is spanned
by wooden bridges, after crossing which one has the choice of a dozen highways, all scantily
shaded with rows of ragged mulberry-trees, glaring white in the sun and deep in impalpable
dry dust. But the sea-breeze blows freshening across the parched land; shadows of light clouds
cool the arid mountains in the distance; the olives roll into silvery undulations; a palm in
full, rejoicing plumage rustles over your head; and the huge spatulate leaves of a banana in
the nearest garden twist and split into fringes. There is no languor in the air, no sleep in
the deluge of sunshine; the landscape is active with signs of work and travel. Wheat, wine,
olives, almonds, and oranges are produced, not only side by side, but from the same fields,
and the painfully thorough system of cultivation leaves not a rood of the soil unused.

I had chosen, at random, a road which led me west toward the nearest mountains, and in the
course of an hour I found myself at the entrance of a valley. Solitary farm-houses, each as
massive as the tower of a fortress and of the color of sunburnt gold, studded the heights,
overlooking the long slopes of almond-orchards. I looked about for water, in order to make
a sketch of the scene; but the bed of the brook was as dry as the highway. The nearest house
toward the plain had a splendid sentinel palm beside its door,--a dream of Egypt, which beckoned
and drew me towards it with a glamour I could not resist. Over the wall of the garden the orange-trees
lifted their mounds of impenetrable foliage; and the blossoms of the pomegranates, sprinkled
against such a background, were like coals of fire. The fig-bearing cactus grew about the house
in clumps twenty feet high, covered with pale-yellow flowers. The building was large and roomy,
with a court-yard, around which ran a shaded gallery. The farmer who was issuing therefrom
as I approached wore the shawl and Turkish trousers of the old generation, while his two sons,
reaping in the adjoining wheat-fields, were hideous in the modern gigots. Although I was manifestly
an intruder, the old man greeted me respectfully, and passed on to his work. Three boys tended
a drove of black hogs in the stubble, and some women were so industriously weeding and hoeing
in the field beyond, that they scarcely stopped to cast a glance upon the stranger. There was
a grateful air of peace, order, and contentment about the place; no one seemed to be suspicious,
or even surprised, when I seated myself upon a low wall, and watched the laborers.

The knoll upon which the farm-house stood sloped down gently into the broad, rich plain of
Palma, extending many a league to the eastward. Its endless orchards made a dim horizon-line,
over which rose the solitary double-headed mountain of Felaniche, and the tops of some peaks
near Arta. The city wall was visible on my right, and beyond it a bright arc of the Mediterranean.
The features of the landscape, in fact, were so simple, that I fear I cannot make its charm
evident to the reader. Looking over the nearer fields, I observed two peculiarities of Majorca,
upon which depends much of the prosperity of the island. The wheat is certainly, as it is claimed
to be, the finest of any Mediterranean land. Its large, perfect grains furnish a flour of such
fine quality that the whole produce of the island is sent to Spain for the pastry and confectionery
of the cities, while the Majorcans import a cheap, inferior kind in its place. Their fortune
depends on their abstinence from the good things which Providence has given them. Their pork
is greatly superior to that of Spain, and it leaves them in like manner; their best wines are
now bought up by speculators and exported for the fabrication of sherry; and their oil, which
might be the finest in the world, is so injured by imperfect methods of preservation that it
might pass for the worst. These things, however, give them no annoyance. Southern races are
sometimes indolent, but rarely Epicurean in their habits; it is the Northern man who sighs
for his flesh-pots.

I walked forward between the fields toward another road, and came upon a tract which had just
been ploughed and planted for a new crop. The soil was ridged in a labyrinthine pattern, which
appeared to have been drawn with square and rule. But more remarkable than this was the difference
of level, so slight that the eye could not possibly detect it, by which the slender irrigating
streams were conducted to every square foot of the field, without a drop being needlessly wasted.
The system is an inheritance from the Moors, who were the best natural engineers the world
has ever known. Water is scarce in Majorca, and thus every stream, spring, rainfall,--even
the dew of heaven,--is utilized. Channels of masonry, often covered to prevent evaporation,
descend from the mountains, branch into narrower veins, and visit every farm on the plain,
whatever may be its level. Where these are not sufficient, the rains are added to the reservoir,
or a string of buckets, turned by a mule, lifts the water from a well. But it is in the economy
of distributing water to the fields that the most marvellous skill is exhibited. The grade
of the surface must not only be preserved, but the subtle, tricksy spirit of water so delicately
understood and humored that the streams shall traverse the greatest amount of soil with the
least waste or wear. In this respect, the most skilful application of science could not surpass
the achievements of the Majorcan farmers.

Working my way homeward through the tangled streets, I was struck with the universal sound
of wailing which filled the city. All the tailors, shoemakers, and basket-makers, at work in
the open air, were singing, rarely in measured strains, but with wild, irregular, lamentable
cries, exactly in the manner of the Arabs. Sometimes the song was antiphonal, flung back and
forth from the farthest visible corners of a street; and then it became a contest of lungs,
kept up for an hour at a time. While breakfasting, I had heard, as I supposed, a miserere chanted
by some procession of monks, and wondered when the doleful strains would cease. I now saw that
they came from the mouths of some cheerful coopers, who were heading barrels a little farther
down the street. The Majorcans still have their troubadours, who are hired by languishing lovers
to improvise strains of longing or reproach under the windows of the fair, and perhaps the
latter may listen with delight; but I know of no place where the Enraged Musician would so
soon become insane. The isle is full of noises, and a Caliban might say that they hurt not;
for me they murdered sleep, both at midnight and at dawn.

I had decided to devote my second day to an excursion to the mountain paradise of Valdemosa,
and sallied forth early, to seek the means of conveyance. Up to this time I had been worried--tortured,
I may say, without exaggeration--by desperate efforts to recover the Spanish tongue, which
I had not spoken for fourteen years. I still had the sense of possessing it, but in some old
drawer of memory, the lock of which had rusted and would not obey the key. Like Mrs. Dombey,
I felt as if there were Spanish words somewhere in the room, but I could not positively say
that I had them,--a sensation which, as everybody knows, is far worse than absolute ignorance.
I had taken a carriage for Valdemosa, after a long talk with the proprietor, a most agreeable
fellow, when I suddenly stopped, and exclaimed to myself, "You are talking Spanish,--did you
know it?" It was even so: as much of the language as I ever knew was suddenly and unaccountably
restored to me. On my return to the Four Nations, I was still further surprised to find myself
repeating songs, without the failure of a line or word, which I had learned from a Mexican
as a school-boy, and had not thought of for twenty years. The unused drawer had somehow been
unlocked or broken open while I slept.

Valdemosa is about twelve miles north of Palma, in the heart of the only mountain-chain of
the island, which forms its western, or rather northwestern coast. The average altitude of
these mountains will not exceed three thousand feet; but the broken, abrupt character of their
outlines, and the naked glare of their immense precipitous walls, give them that intrinsic
grandeur which does not depend on measurement. In their geological formation they resemble
the Pyrenees; the rocks are of that palombino, or dove-colored limestone, so common in Sicily
and the Grecian islands,--pale bluish-gray, taking a soft orange tint on the faces most exposed
to the weather. Rising directly from the sea on the west, they cease almost as suddenly on
the land side, leaving all the central portion of the island a plain, slightly inclined toward
the southeast, where occasional peaks or irregular groups of hills interrupt its monotony.

In due time my team made its appearance,--an omnibus of basket-work, with a canvas cover, drawn
by two horses. It had space enough for twelve persons, yet was the smallest vehicle I could
discover. There appears to be nothing between it and the two-wheeled cart of the peasant, which,
on a pinch, carries six or eight. For an hour and a half we traversed the teeming plain, between
stacks of wheat worthy to be laid on the altar at Eleusis, carob-trees with their dark, varnished
foliage, almond-orchards bending under the weight of their green nuts, and the country-houses
with their garden clumps of orange, cactus, and palm. As we drew near the base of the mountains,
olive-trees of great size and luxuriance covered the earth with a fine sprinkle of shade. Their
gnarled and knotted trunks, a thousand years old, were frequently split into three or four
distinct and separate trees, which in the process assumed forms so marvellously human in their
distortion, that I could scarcely believe them to be accidental. Doré never drew anything so
weird and grotesque. Here were two club-headed individuals righting, with interlocked knees,
convulsed shoulders, and fists full of each other's hair; yonder a bully was threatening attack,
and three cowards appeared to be running away from him with such speed that they were tumbling
over one another's heels. In one place a horrible dragon was devouring a squirming, shapeless
animal; in another, a drunken man, with whirling arms and tangled feet, was pitching forward
upon his face. The living wood in Dante was tame beside these astonishing trees.

We now entered a wild ravine, where, nevertheless, the mountain-sides, sheer and savage as
they were, had succumbed to the rule of man, and nourished an olive or a carob tree on every
corner of earth between the rocks. The road was built along the edge of the deep, dry bed of
a winter stream, so narrow that a single arch carried it from side to side, as the windings
of the glen compelled. After climbing thus for a mile in the shadows of threatening masses
of rock, an amphitheatre of gardens, enframed by the spurs of two grand, arid mountains, opened
before us. The bed of the valley was filled with vines and orchards, beyond which rose long
terraces, dark with orange and citron trees, obelisks of cypress and magnificent groups of
palm, with the long white front and shaded balconies of a hacienda between. Far up, on a higher
plateau between the peaks, I saw the church-tower of Valdemosa. The sides of the mountains
were terraced with almost incredible labor, walls massive as the rock itself being raised to
a height of thirty feet, to gain a shelf of soil two or three yards in breadth. Where the olive
and the carob ceased, box and ilex took possession of the inaccessible points, carrying up
the long waves of vegetation until their foam-sprinkles of silver-gray faded out among the
highest clefts. The natural channels of the rock were straightened and made to converge at
the base, so that not a wandering cloud could bathe the wild growths of the summit without
being caught and hurried into some tank below. The wilderness was forced, by pure toil, to
become a Paradise; and each stubborn feature, which toil could not subdue, now takes its place
as a contrast and an ornament in the picture. Verily, there is nothing in all Italy so beautiful
as Valdemosa!

Lest I should be thought extravagant in my delight, let me give you some words of George Sand,
which I have since read. "I have never seen," she says, "anything so bright, and at the same
time so melancholy, as these perspectives where the ilex, the carob, pine, olive, poplar, and
cypress mingle their various hues in the hollows of the mountain,--abysses of verdure, where
the torrent precipitates its course under mounds of sumptuous richness and an inimitable grace....
While you hear the sound of the sea on the northern coast, you perceive it only as a faint
shining line beyond the sinking mountains and the great plain which is unrolled to the southward;--a
sublime picture, framed in the foreground by dark rocks covered with pines; in the middle distance
by mountains of boldest outline, fringed with superb trees; and beyond these by rounded hills
which the setting sun gilds with burning colors, where the eye distinguishes, a league away,
the microscopic profile of trees, fine as the antennæ of butterflies, black and clear as pen-drawings
of India-ink on a ground of sparkling gold. It is one of those landscapes which oppress you
because they leave nothing to be desired, nothing to be imagined. Nature has here created that
which the poet and the painter behold in their dreams. An immense ensemble, infinite details,
inexhaustible variety, blended forms, sharp contours, dim, vanishing depths,--all are present,
and art can suggest nothing further. Majorca is one of the most beautiful countries of the
world for the painter, and one of the least known. It is a green Helvetia under the sky of
Calabria, with the solemnity and silence of the Orient."

The village of Valdemosa is a picturesque, rambling place, brown with age, and buried in the
foliage of fig and orange trees. The highest part of the narrow plateau where it stands is
crowned by the church and monastery of the Trappists (Cartusa), now deserted. My coachman drove
under the open roof of a venta, and began to unharness his horses. The family, who were dining
at a table so low that they appeared to be sitting on the floor, gave me the customary invitation
to join them, and when I asked for a glass of wine brought me one which held nearly a quart.
I could not long turn my back on the bright, wonderful landscape without; so, taking books
and colors, I entered the lonely cloisters of the monastery. Followed first by one small boy,
I had a retinue of at least fifteen children before I had completed the tour of the church,
court-yard, and the long-drawn, shady corridors of the silent monks; and when I took my seat
on the stones at the foot of the towers, with the very scene described by George Sand before
my eyes, a number of older persons added themselves to the group. A woman brought me a chair,
and the children then planted themselves in a dense row before me, while I attempted to sketch
under such difficulties as I had never known before. Precisely because I am no artist, it makes
me nervous to be watched while drawing; and the remarks of the young men on this occasion were
not calculated to give me courage.

When I had roughly mapped out the sky with its few floating clouds, some one exclaimed, "He
has finished the mountains, there they are!" and they all crowded around me, saying, "Yes,
there are the mountains!" While I was really engaged upon the mountains, there was a violent
discussion as to what they might be; and I don't know how long it would have lasted, had I
not turned to some cypresses nearer the foreground. Then a young man cried out: "O, that's
a cypress! I wonder if he will make them all,--how many are there? One, two, three, four, five,--yes,
he makes five!" There was an immediate rush, shutting out earth and heaven from my sight, and
they all cried in chorus, "One, two, three, four, five,--yes, he has made five!" "Cavaliers
and ladies," I said, with solemn politeness, "have the goodness not to stand before me." "To
be sure! Santa Maria! How do you think he can see?" yelled an old woman, and the children were
hustled away. But I thereby won the ill-will of those garlic-breathing and scratching imps,
for very soon a shower of water-drops fell upon my paper. Next a stick, thrown from an upper
window, dropped on my head, and more than once my elbow was intentionally jogged from behind.
The older people scolded and threatened, but young Majorca was evidently against me. I therefore
made haste to finish my impotent mimicry of air and light, and get away from the curious crowd.

Behind the village there is a gleam of the sea, near, yet at an unknown depth. As I threaded
the walled lanes, seeking some point of view, a number of lusty young fellows, mounted on unsaddled
mules, passed me with a courteous greeting. On one side rose a grand pile of rock, covered
with ilex-trees,--a bit of scenery so admirable, that I fell into a new temptation. I climbed
a little knoll and looked around me. Far and near no children were to be seen; the portico
of an unfinished house offered both shade and seclusion. I concealed myself behind a pillar,
and went to work. For half an hour I was happy; then around black head popped up over a garden-wall,
a small brown form crept towards me, beckoned, and presently a new multitude had assembled.
The noise they made provoked a sound of cursing from the interior of a stable adjoining the
house. They only made a louder tumult in answer; the voice became more threatening, and at
the end of five minutes the door burst open. An old man, with wrath flashing from his eyes,
came forth. The children took to their heels; I greeted the new-comer politely, but he hardly
returned the salutation. He was a very fountain of curses, and now hurled stones with them
after the fugitives. When they had all disappeared behind the walls, he went back to his den,
grumbling and muttering. It was not five minutes, however, before the children were back again,
as noisy as before; so, at the first thunder from the stable, I shut up my book, and returned
to the inn.

While the horses were being harnessed, I tried to talk with an old native, who wore the island
costume, and was as grim and grizzly as Ossawatomie Brown. A party of country people from the
plains, who seemed to have come up to Valdemosa on a pleasure trip, clambered into a two-wheeled
cart drawn by one mule, and drove away. My old friend gave me the distances of various places,
the state of the roads, and the quality of the wine; but he seemed to have no conception of
the world outside of the island. Indeed, to a native of the village, whose fortune has simply
placed him beyond the reach of want, what is the rest of the world? Around and before him spread
one of its loveliest pictures; he breathes its purest air; and he may enjoy its best luxuries,
if he heeds or knows how to use them.

Up to this day the proper spice and flavor had been wanting. Palma had only interested me,
but in Valdemosa I found the inspiration, the heat and play of vivid, keen sensation, which
one (often somewhat unreasonably) expects from a new land. As my carriage descended, winding
around the sides of the magnificent mountain amphitheatre, in the alternate shadows of palm
and ilex, pine and olive, I looked back, clinging to every marvellous picture, and saying to
myself, over and over again, "I have not come hither in vain." When the last shattered gate
of rock closed behind me, and the wood of insane olive-trunks was passed, with what other eyes
I looked upon the rich orchard-plain! It had now become a part of one superb whole; as the
background of my mountain view, it had caught a new glory, and still wore the bloom of the
invisible sea.

In the evening I reached the Four Nations, where I was needlessly invited to dinner by certain
strangers, and dined alone, on meats cooked in rancid oil. When the cook had dished the last
course, he came into a room adjoining the dining apartment, sat down to a piano in his white
cap, and played loud, long, and badly. The landlord had papered this room with illustrations
from all the periodicals of Europe: dancing-girls pointed their toes under cardinals' hats,
and bulls were baited before the shrines of saints. Mixed with the woodcuts were the landlord's
own artistic productions, wonderful to behold. All the house was proud of this room, and with
reason; for there is assuredly no other room like it in the world. A notice in four languages,
written with extraordinary flourishes, announced in the English division that travellers will
find "confortation and modest prices." The former advantage, I discovered, consisted in the
art of the landlord, the music and oil of the cook, and the attendance of a servant so distant
that it was easier to serve myself than seek him; the latter may have been "modest" for Palma,
but in any other place they would have been considered brazenly impertinent. I should therefore
advise travellers to try the "Three Pigeons," in the same street, rather than the Four Nations.

The next day, under the guidance of my old friend, M. Laurens, I wandered for several hours
through the streets, peeping into court-yards, looking over garden-walls, or idling under the
trees of the Alameda. There are no pleasant suburban places of resort, such as are to be found
in all other Spanish cities; the country commences on the other side of the moat. Three small
cafés exist, but cannot be said to flourish, for I never saw more than one table occupied.
A theatre has been built, but is only open during the winter, of course. Some placards on the
walls, however, announced that the national (that is, Majorcan) diversion of baiting bulls
with dogs would be given in a few days.

The noblesse appear to be even haughtier than in Spain, perhaps on account of their greater
poverty; and much more of the feudal spirit lingers among them, and gives character to society,
than on the main-land. Each family has still a crowd of retainers, who perform a certain amount
of service on the estates, and are thenceforth entitled to support. This custom is the reverse
of profitable; but it keeps up an air of lordship, and is therefore retained. Late in the afternoon,
when the new portion of the Alameda is in shadow, and swept by a delicious breeze from the
sea, it begins to be frequented by the people; but I noticed that very few of the upper class
made their appearance. So grave and sombre are these latter, that one would fancy them descended
from the conquered Moors, rather than the Spanish conquerors.

M. Laurens is of the opinion that the architecture of Palma cannot be ascribed to an earlier
period than the beginning of the sixteenth century. I am satisfied, however, either that many
fragments of Moorish sculpture must have been used in the erection of the older buildings,
or that certain peculiarities of Moorish art have been closely imitated. For instance, that
Moorish combination of vast, heavy masses of masonry with the lightest and airiest style of
ornament, which the Gothic sometimes attempts, but never with the same success, is here found
at every step. I will borrow M. Laurens's words, descriptive of the superior class of edifices,
both because I can find no better of my own, and because this very characteristic has been
noticed by him. "Above the ground-floor," he says, "there is only one story and a low garret.
The entrance is a semi-circular portal without ornament; but the number and dimensions of the
stones, disposed in long radii, give it a stately aspect. The grand halls of the main story
are lighted by windows divided by excessively slender columns, which are entirely Arabic in
appearance. This character is so pronounced, that I was obliged to examine more than twenty
houses constructed in the same manner, and to study all the details of their construction,
in order to assure myself that the windows had not really been taken from those fairy Moresque
palaces, of which the Alhambra is the only remaining specimen. Except in Majorca, I have nowhere
seen columns which, with a height of six feet, have a diameter of only three inches. The fine
grain of the marble of which they are made, as well as the delicacy of the capitals, led me
to suppose them to be of Saracenic origin."

I was more impressed by the Lonja, or Exchange, than any other building in Palma. It dates
from the first half of the fifteenth century, when the kings of the island had built up a flourishing
commerce, and expected to rival Genoa and Venice. Its walls, once crowded with merchants and
seamen, are now only opened for the Carnival balls and other festivals sanctioned by religion.
It is a square edifice, with light Gothic towers at the corners, displaying little ornamental
sculpture, but nevertheless a taste and symmetry, in all its details, which are very rare in
Spanish architecture. The interior is a single vast hall, with a groined roof, resting on six
pillars of exquisite beauty. They are sixty feet high, and fluted spirally from top to bottom,
like a twisted cord, with a diameter of not more than two feet and a half. It is astonishing
how the airy lightness and grace of these pillars relieve the immense mass of masonry, spare
the bare walls the necessity of ornament, and make the ponderous roof light as a tent. There
is here the trace of a law of which our modern architects seem to be ignorant. Large masses
of masonry are always oppressive in their effect; they suggest pain and labor, and the Saracens,
even more than the Greeks, seem to have discovered the necessity of introducing a sportive,
fanciful element, which shall express the delight of the workman in his work.

In the afternoon, I sallied forth from the western coast-gate, and found there, sloping to
the shore, a village inhabited apparently by sailors and fishermen. The houses were of one
story, flat-roofed, and brilliantly whitewashed. Against the blue background of the sea, with
here and there the huge fronds of a palm rising from among them, they made a truly African
picture. On the brown ridge above the village were fourteen huge windmills, nearly all in motion.
I found a road leading, along the brink of the overhanging cliffs, toward the castle of Belver,
whose brown mediæval turrets rose against a gathering thunder-cloud. This fortress, built as
a palace for the kings of Majorca immediately after the expulsion of the Moors, is now a prison.
It has a superb situation, on the summit of a conical hill, covered with umbrella-pines. In
one of its round, massive towers, Arago was imprisoned for two months in 1808. He was at the
time employed in measuring an arc of the meridian, when news of Napoleon's violent measures
in Spain reached Majorca. The ignorant populace immediately suspected the astronomer of being
a spy and political agent, and would have lynched him at once. Warned by a friend, he disguised
himself as a sailor, escaped on board a boat in the harbor, and was then placed in Belver by
the authorities, in order to save his life. He afterwards succeeded in reaching Algiers, where
he was seized by order of the Bey, and made to work as a slave. Few men of science have known
so much of the romance of life.

I had a long walk to Belver, but I was rewarded by a grand view of the Bay of Palma, the city,
and all the southern extremity of the island. I endeavored to get into the fields, to seek
other points of view; but they were surrounded by such lofty walls that I fancied the owners
of the soil could only get at them by scaling-ladders. The grain and trees on either side of
the road were hoary with dust, and the soil of the hue of burnt chalk, seemed never to have
known moisture. But while I loitered on the cliffs the cloud in the west had risen and spread;
a cold wind blew over the hills, and the high gray peaks behind Valdemosa disappeared, one
by one, in a veil of rain. A rough tartana, which performed the service of an omnibus, passed
me returning to the city, and the driver, having no passengers, invited me to ride. "What is
your fare?" I asked. "Whatever people choose to give," said he,--which was reasonable enough:
and I thus reached the Four Nations in time to avoid a deluge.

The Majorcans are fond of claiming their island as the birthplace of Hannibal. There are some
remains supposed to be Carthaginian near the town of Alcudia, but, singularly enough, not a
fragment to tell of the Roman domination, although their Balearis Major must have been then,
as now, a rich and important possession. The Saracens, rather than the Vandals, have been the
spoilers of ancient art. Their religious detestation of sculpture was at the bottom of this
destruction. The Christians could consecrate the old temple to a new service, and give the
names of saints to the statues of the gods; but to the Moslem every representation of the human
form was worse than blasphemy. For this reason, the symbols of the most ancient faith, massive
and unintelligible, have outlived the monuments of those which followed.

In a forest of ancient oaks near the village of Arta, there still exists a number of Cyclopean
constructions, the character of which is as uncertain as the date of their erection. They are
cones of huge, irregular blocks, the jambs and lintels of the entrances being of single stones.
In a few the opening is at the top, with rude projections resembling a staircase to aid in
the descent. Cinerary urns have been found in some of them, yet they do not appear to have
been originally constructed as tombs. The Romans may have afterwards turned them to that service.
In the vicinity there are the remains of a Druid circle, of large upright monoliths. These
singular structures were formerly much more numerous, the people (who call them "the altars
of the Gentiles") having destroyed a great many in building the village and the neighboring
farm-houses.

I heard a great deal about a cavern on the eastern coast of the island, beyond Arta. It is
called the Hermit's Cave, and the people of Palma consider it the principal thing to be seen
in all Majorca. Their descriptions of the place, however, did not inspire me with any very
lively desire to undertake a two days' journey for the purpose of crawling on my belly through
a long hole, and then descending a shaky rope-ladder for a hundred feet or more. When one has
performed these feats, they said, he finds himself in an immense hall, supported by stalactitic
pillars, the marvels of which cannot be described. Had the scenery of the eastern part of the
island been more attractive, I should have gone as far as Arta; but I wished to meet the steamer
Minorca at Alcudia, and there were but two days remaining.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] Souvenirs d'un Voyage d'Art à l'Isle de Majorque. Par J.-B. Laurens.

MINOR ELIZABETHAN DRAMATISTS.

In the present paper we propose to consider six dramatists who were more immediately the contemporaries
of Shakespeare and Jonson, and who have the precedence in time, and three of them, if we may
believe some critics, not altogether without claim to the precedence in merit, of Beaumont
and Fletcher, Massinger, and Ford. These are Heywood, Middleton, Marston, Dekkar, Webster,
and Chapman.

They belong to the school of dramatists of which Shakespeare was the head, and which is distinguished
from the school of Jonson by essential differences of principle. Jonson constructed his plays
on definite external rules, and could appeal confidently to the critical understanding, in
case the regularity of his plot and the keeping of his characters were called in question.
Shakespeare constructed his, not according to any rules which could be drawn from the practice
of other dramatists, but according to those interior laws which the mind, in its creative action,
instinctively divines and spontaneously obeys. In his case, the appeal is not to the understanding
alone, but to the feelings and faculties which were concerned in producing the work itself;
and the symmetry of the whole is felt by hundreds who could not frame an argument to sustain
it. The laws to which his genius submitted were different from those to which other dramatists
had submitted, because the time, the circumstances, the materials, the purpose aimed at, were
different. The time demanded a drama which should represent human life in all its diversity,
and in which the tragic and comic, the high and the low, should be in juxtaposition, if not
in combination. The dramatists of whom we are about to speak represented them in juxtaposition,
and rarely succeeded in vitally combining them so as to produce symmetrical works. Their comedy
and tragedy, their humor and passion, move in parallel rather than in converging lines. They
have diversity; but as their diversity neither springs from, nor tends to, a central principle
of organization or of order, the result is often a splendid anarchy of detached scenes, more
effective as detached than as related. Shakespeare alone had the comprehensive energy of impassioned
imagination to fuse into unity the almost unmanageable materials of his drama, to organize
this anarchy into a new and most complex order, and to make a world-wide variety of character
and incident consistent with oneness of impression. Jonson, not pretending to give his work
this organic form, put forth his whole strength to give it mechanical regularity; every line
in his solidest plays costing him, as the wits said, "a cup of sack." But the force implied
in a Shakespearian drama, a force that crushes and dissolves the resisting materials into their
elements, and recombines or fuses them into a new substance, is a force so different in kind
from Jonson's, that it would of course be idle to attempt an estimate of its superiority in
degree. And in regard to those minor dramatists who will be the subjects of the present paper,
if they fall below Jonson in general ability, they nearly all afford scenes and passages superior
to his best in depth of passion, vigor of imagination, and audacious self-committal to the
primitive instincts of the heart.

The most profuse, but perhaps the least poetic of these dramatists, was Thomas Heywood, of
whom little is known, except that he was one of the most prolific writers the world has ever
seen. In 1598 he became an actor, or, as Henslowe, who employed him, phrases it, "came and
hired himself to me as a covenanted servant for two years." The date of his first published
drama is 1601; that of his last published work, a "General History of Women," is 1657. As early
as 1633 he represents himself as having had an "entire hand, or at least a main finger," in
two hundred and twenty plays, of which only twenty-three were printed. It was said of him,
by a contemporary, that he "not only acted every day, but also obliged himself to write a sheet
every day for several years; but many of his plays being composed loosely in taverns, occasions
them to be so mean." Besides his labors as a playwright, he worked as translator, versifier,
and general maker of books. Late in life he conceived the design of writing the lives of all
the poets of the world, including his contemporaries. Had this project been carried out, we
should have known something about the external life of Shakespeare; for Heywood must have carried
in his brain many of those facts which we of this age are most curious to know.

Heywood's best plays evince large observation, considerable dramatic skill, a sweet and humane
spirit, and an easy command of language. His style, indeed, is singularly simple, pure, clear,
and straightforward; but it conveys the impression of a mind so diffused as almost to be characterless,
and incapable of flashing its thoughts through the images of imaginative passion. He is more
prosaic, closer to ordinary life and character, than his contemporaries. Two of his plays,
and the best of them all, "A Woman killed with Kindness," and "The English Traveller," are
thoroughly domestic dramas, the first, and not the worst, of their class. The plot of "The
English Traveller" is specially good; and in reading few works of fiction do we receive a greater
shock of surprise than in Geraldine's discovery of the infidelity of Wincott's wife, whom he
loves with a Platonic devotion. It is as unanticipated as the discovery, in Jonson's "Silent
Woman," that Epicæne is no woman at all, while at the same time it has less the appearance
of artifice, and is more the result of natural causes.

With less fluency of diction, less skill in fastening the reader's interest to his fable, harsher
in versification, and generally clumsier in construction, the best plays of Thomas Middleton
are still superior to Heywood's in force of imagination, depth of passion, and fulness of matter.
It must, however, be admitted that the sentiments which direct his powers are not so fine as
Heywood's. He depresses the mind, rather than invigorates it. The eye he cast on human life
was not the eye of a sympathizing poet, but rather that of a sagacious cynic. His observation,
though sharp, close, and vigilant, is somewhat ironic and unfeeling. His penetrating, incisive
intellect cuts its way to the heart of a character as with a knife; and if he lays bare its
throbs of guilt and weakness, and lets you into the secrets of its organization, he conceives
his whole work is performed. This criticism applies even to his tragedy of "Women beware Women,"
a drama which shows a deep study of the sources of human frailty, considerable skill in exhibiting
the passions in their consecutive, if not in their conflicting action, and a firm hold upon
character; but it lacks pathos, tenderness, and humanity; its power is out of all proportion
to its geniality; the characters, while they stand definitely out to the eye, are seen through
no visionary medium of sentiment and fancy; and the reader feels the force of Leantio's own
agonizing complaint, that his affliction is

    "Of greater weight than youth was made to bear,
    As if a punishment of after-life
    Were fall'n upon man here, so new it is
    To flesh and blood, so strange, so insupportable."

There is, indeed, no atmosphere to Middleton's mind; and the hard, bald caustic peculiarity
of his genius, which is unpleasingly felt in reading any one of his plays, becomes a source
of painful weariness as we plod doggedly through the five thick volumes of his works. Like
the incantations of his own witches, it "casts a thick scurf over life." It is most powerfully
felt in his tragedy of "The Changeling," at once the most oppressive and impressive effort
of his genius. The character of De Flores in this play has in it a strangeness of iniquity,
such as we think is hardly paralleled in the whole range of the Elizabethan drama. The passions
of this brute imp are not human. They are such as might be conceived of as springing from the
union of animal with fiendish impulses, in a nature which knew no law outside of its own lust,
and was as incapable of a scruple as of a sympathy.

But of all the dramatists of the time, the most disagreeable in disposition, though by no means
the least powerful in mind, was John Marston. The time of his birth is not known; his name
is entangled in contemporary records with that of another John Marston; and we may be sure
that his mischief-loving spirit would have been delighted could he have anticipated that the
antiquaries, a century after his death, would be driven to despair by the difficulty of discriminating
one from the other. It is more than probable, however, that he was the John Marston who was
of a respectable family in Shropshire; who took his bachelor's degree at Oxford in 1592; and
who was afterwards married to a daughter of the chaplain of James the First. Whatever may have
been Marston's antecedents, they were such as to gratify his tastes as a cynical observer of
the crimes and follies of men,--an observer whose hatred of evil sprang from no love of good,
but to whom the sight of depravity and baseness was welcome, inasmuch as it afforded him me
occasion to wreak his own scorn and pride. His ambition was to be the English Juvenal; and
it must be conceded that he had the true Iago-like disposition "to spy out abuses." Accordingly,
in 1598, he published a series of venomous satires called "The Scourge of Villanie," rough
in versification, condensed in thought, tainted in matter, evincing a cankered more than a
caustic spirit, and producing an effect at once indecent and inhuman. To prove that this scourging
of villany, which would have put Mephistopheles to the blush, was inspired by no respect for
virtue, he soon followed it up with a poem so licentious that, before it was circulated to
any extent, it was suppressed by order of Archbishop Whitgift, and nearly all the copies destroyed.
A writer could not be thus dishonored without being brought prominently into notice, and old
Henslowe, the manager, was after him at once to secure his libellous ability for the Rose.
Accordingly, we learn from Henslowe's diary, under date of September 28, 1599, that he had
lent to William Borne "to lend unto John Mastone," "the new poete," "the sum of forty shillings,"
in earnest of some work not named. There is an undated letter of Marston to Henslowe, written
probably in reference to this matter, which is characteristic in its disdainfully confident
tone. Thus it runs:--

     "MR. HENSLOWE, at the Rose on the Bankside.

     "If you like my playe of Columbus, it is verie well, and you
     shall give me noe more than twentie poundes for it, but If
     nott, lett me have it by the Bearer againe, as I know the
     kinges men will freelie give me as much for it, and the
     profitts of the third daye moreover.

                            "Soe I rest yours,

                                "JOHN MARSTON."

He seems not to have been popular among the band of dramatists he now joined, and it is probable
that his insulting manners were not sustained by corresponding courage. Ben Jonson had many
quarrels with him, both literary and personal, and mentions one occasion on which he beat him,
and took away his pistol. His temper was Italian rather than English, and one would conceive
of him as quicker with the stiletto than the fist. His connection with the stage ceased in
1613, after he had produced a number of dramas, of which nine have been preserved. He died
about twenty years afterwards, in 1634, seemingly in comfortable circumstances.

Marston's plays, whether comedies or tragedies, all bear the mark of his bitter and misanthropic
spirit,--a spirit that seemed cursed by the companionship of its own thoughts, and forced them
out through a well-grounded fear that they would fester if left within. His comedies of "The
Malcontent," "The Fawn," and "What You Will," have no genuine mirth, though an abundance of
scornful wit,--of wit which, in his own words, "stings, blisters, galls off the skin, with
the acrimony of its sharp quickness." The baser its objects, the brighter its gleam. It is
stimulated by the desire to give pain, rather than the wish to communicate pleasure. Marston
is not without sprightliness, but his sprightliness is never the sprightliness of the kid,
though it is sometimes that of the hyena, and sometimes that of the polecat. In his Malcontent
he probably drew a nattering likeness of his inner self: yet the most compassionate reader
of the play would experience little pity in seeing the Malcontent hanged. It is to be hoped,
however, that the spirit of the chaplain's tirades against sins was not, like his son-in-law's,
worse than the sins themselves.

If Marston's comic vein is thus, to use one of Dekkar's phrases, that of "a thorny-toothed
rascal," it may be supposed that his tragic is a still fiercer libel on humanity. His tragedies,
indeed, though not without a gloomy power, are extravagant and horrible in conception and conduct.
Even when he copies, he makes the thing his own by caricaturing it. Thus the plot of "Antonio's
Revenge" is plainly taken from "Hamlet," but it is "Hamlet" passed through Marston's intellect
and imagination, and so debased as to look original. Still, the intellect in Marston's tragedies
strikes the reader as forcible in itself, and as capable of achieving excellence, if it could
only be divorced from the bad disposition and deformed conscience which direct its exercise.
He has fancy, and he frequently stutters into imagination; but the imp that controls his heart
corrupts his taste and taints his sense of beauty, and the result is that he has a malicious
satisfaction in deliberately choosing words whose uncouthness finds no extenuation in their
expressiveness, and in forging elaborate metaphors which disgust rather than delight. His description
of a storm at sea is among the least unfavorable specimens of this perversion of his poetical
powers:--

         "The sea grew mad:

       *   *   *   *

    Strait swarthy darkness popt out Phoebus' eye,
    And blurred the jocund face of bright-cheek'd day;
    Whilst cruddled fogs masked even darkness' brow;
    Heaven bade's good night, and the rocks groaned
    At the intestine uproar of the main."

It must be allowed that both his tragedies and comedies are full of strong and striking thoughts,
which show a searching inquisition into the worst parts of human nature. Occasionally he expresses
a general truth with great felicity, as when he says,

                       "Pygmy cares
    Can shelter under patience' shield; but giant griefs
    Will burst all covert."

His imagination is sometimes stimulated into unusual power in expressing the fiercer and darker
passions; as, for example, in this image:--

               "O, my soul's enthroned
    In the triumphant chariot of revenge!"

And in this:--

    "Ghastly amazement! with upstarted hair,
    Shall hurry on before, and usher us,
    Whilst trumpets clamor with a sound of death."

He has three descriptions of morning, which seem to have been written in emulation of Shakespeare's
in "Hamlet"; two of them being found in the tragedy which "Hamlet" suggested.

    "Is not yon gleam the shuddering morn that flakes
    With silver tincture the east verge of heaven?

These last two lines appear feeble enough as contrasted with the beautiful intensity of imagination
in Emerson's picturing of the same scene:--

    "O, tenderly the haughty Day
    Fills his blue urn with fire."

The most beautiful passage in Marston's plays is the lament of a father over the dead body
of his son, who has been defamed. It is so apart from his usual style, as to breed the suspicion
that the worthy chaplain's daughter, whom he made Mrs. Marston, must have given it to him from
her purer imagination:--

                           "Look on those lips,
    Those now lawn pillows, on whose tender softness
    Chaste modest speech, stealing from out his breast,
    Had wont to rest itself, as loath to post
    From out so fair an inn: look, look, they seem
    To stir.
    And breathe defiance to black obloquy."

If among the dramatists of the period any person could be selected who in disposition was the
opposite of Marston, it would be Thomas Dekkar,--a man whose inborn sweetness and gleefulness
of soul carried him through vexations and miseries which would have crushed a spirit less hopeful,
cheerful, and humane. He was probably born about the year 1575; commenced his career as player
and playwright before 1598; and for forty years was an author by profession, that is, was occupied
in fighting famine with his pen. The first intelligence we have of him is characteristic of
his whole life. It is from Henslowe's Diary, under date of February, 1598: "Lent unto the company,
to discharge Mr. Decker out of the counter in the powltry, the sum of 40 shillings." Oldys
tells us that "he was in King's Bench Prison from 1613 to 1616"; and the antiquary adds ominously,
"how much longer I know not." Indeed, Dr. Johnson's celebrated condensation of the scholar's
life would stand for a biography of Dekkar:--

    "Toil, envy, want, the patron, and the jail."

This forced familiarity with poverty and distress does not seem to have
imbittered his feelings or weakened the force and elasticity of his
mind. He turned his calamities into commodities. If indigence threw him
into the society of the ignorant, the wretched, and the depraved, he
made the knowledge of low life lie thus obtained serve his purpose as
dramatist or pamphleteer. Whatever may have been the effect of his
vagabond habits on his principles, they did not stain the sweetness and
purity of his sentiments. There is an innocency in his very coarseness,
and a brisk, bright good-nature chirps in his very scurrility.
    She sits and smiles to hear some curse her name,
    And some with adoration crown her fame."

The boundless beneficence of Dekkar's heart is specially embodied in the character of the opulent
lord, Jacomo Gentili, in his play of "The Wonder of a Kingdom." When Gentili's steward brings
him the book in which the amount of his charities is recorded, he exclaims impatiently:--

    "Thou vain vainglorious fool, go burn that book;
    No herald needs to blazon charity's arms.

       *   *   *   *

    I launch not forth a ship, with drums and guns
    And trumpets, to proclaim my gallantry;
    He that will read the wasting of my gold
    Shall find it writ in ashes, which the wind
    Will scatter ere he spells it."

He will have neither wife nor children. When, he says,

         "I shall have one hand in heaven,
    To write my happiness in leaves of stars,
    A wife would pluck me by the other down.
    This bark has thus long sailed about the world,
    My soul the pilot, and yet never listened
    To such a mermaid's song.

       *   *   *   *

    My heirs shall be poor children fed on alms;
    Soldiers that want limbs; scholars poor and scorned;
    And these will be a sure inheritance
    Not to decay; manors and towns will fall,
    Lordships and parks, pastures and woods, be sold;
    But this land still continues to the lord:
    No tricks of law can me beguile of this.
    But of the beggar's dish, I shall drink healths
    To last forever; whilst I live, my roof
    Shall cover naked wretches; when I die,
    'T is dedicated to St. Charity."

We should not do justice to Dekkar's disposition, even after these quotations, did we omit
that enumeration of positives and negatives which, in his view, make up the character of the
happy man:--

    "He that in the sun is neither beam nor moat,
    He that's not mad after a petticoat,
    He for whom poor men's curse dig no grave,
    He that is neither lord's nor lawyer's slave,
    He that makes This his sea and That his shore,
    He that in 's coffin is richer than before,
    He that counts Youth his sword and Age his staff.
    He that upon his death-bed is a swan.
    And dead no crow,--he is a Happy Man."

As Dekkar wrote under the constant goad of necessity, he seems to have been indifferent to
the requirements of art. That "wet-eyed wench, Care," was as absent from his ink as from his
soul. Even his best plays, "Old Fortunatus," "The Wonder of a Kingdom," and another whose title
cannot be mentioned, are good in particular scenes and characters rather than good as wholes.
Occasionally, as in the character of Signior Orlando Friscobaldo, he strikes off a fresh, original,
and masterly creation, consistently sustained throughout, and charming us by its lovableness,
as well as thrilling us by its power; but generally his sentiment and imagination break upon
us in unexpected felicities, strangely better than what surrounds them. These have been culled
by the affectionate admiration of Lamb, Hunt, and Hazlitt, and made familiar to all English
readers. To prove how much finer, in its essence, his genius was than the genius of so eminent
a dramatist as Massinger, we only need to compare Massinger's portions of the play of "The
Virgin Martyr" with Dekkar's. The scene between Dorothea and Angelo, in which she recounts
her first meeting with him as a "sweet-faced beggar-boy," and the scene in which Angelo brings
to Theophilus the basket of fruits and flowers which Dorothea has plucked in Paradise, are
inexpressibly beautiful in their exquisite subtlety of imagination and artless elevation of
sentiment. It is difficult to understand how a writer capable of such refinements as these
should have left no drama which is a part of the classical literature of his country.

One of these scenes--that between Dorothea, the Virgin Martyr, and Angelo, an angel who waits
upon her in the disguise of a page--we cannot refrain from quoting, familiar as it must be
to many readers:--

    "Dor. My book and taper.

    "Ang. Here, most holy mistress.

    "Dor. Thy voice bends forth such music, that I never
    Was ravished with a more celestial sound.
    Were every servant in the world like thee,
    So full of goodness, angels would come down
    To dwell with us; thy name is Angelo,
    And like that name thou art. Get thee to rest;
    Thy youth with too much watching is oppressed.

    "Ang. No, my dear lady; I could weary stars,
    And force the wakeful moon to lose her eyes,
    By my late watching, but to wait on you.
    When at your prayers you kneel before the altar,
    Methinks I'm singing with some quire in heaven,
    So blest I hold me in your company.
    Therefore, my most loved mistress, do not bid
    Your boy, so serviceable, to get hence,
    For then you break his heart.

    "Dor. Be nigh me still then.
    In golden letters down I'll set that day
    Which gave thee to me. Little did I hope
    To meet such worlds of comfort in thyself,
    This little pretty body, when I, coming
    Forth of the temple, heard my beggar-boy,
    My sweet-faced, godly beggar-boy, crave an alms,
    Which with glad hand I gave,--with lucky hand!
    And when I took thee home, my most chaste bosom
    Methought was filled with no hot wanton fire,
    But with a holy flame, mounting since higher,
    On wings of cherubim, than it did before.

    "Ang. Proud am I that my lady's modest eye
    So likes so poor a servant.

    "Dor.                 I have offered
    Handfuls of gold but to behold thy parents.
    I would leave kingdoms, were I queen of some,
    To dwell with thy good father....
                           Show me thy parents;
    Be not ashamed.

    "Angelo. I am not: I did never
    Know who my mother was; but by yon palace,
    Filled with bright heavenly courtiers, I dare assure you,
    And pawn these eyes upon it, and this hand,
    My father is in heaven; and, pretty mistress,
    If your illustrious hour-glass spend his sand,
    No worse than yet it does upon my life,
    You and I both shall meet my father there,
    And he shall bid you welcome.

    "Dor.                 O blessed day!
    We all long to be there, but lose the way."

A more sombre genius than Dekkar, though a genius more than once associated with his own in
composition, was John Webster, of whose biography nothing is certainly known, except that he
was a member of the Merchant Tailors' Company. His works have been thrice republished within
thirty years; but the perusal of the whole does not add to the impression left on the mind
by his two great tragedies. His comic talent was small; and for all the mirth in his comedies
of "Westward Hoe" and "Northward Hoe" we are probably indebted to his associate, Dekkar. His
play of "Appius and Virginia" is far from being an adequate rendering of one of the most beautiful
and affecting fables that ever crept into history. "The Devil's Law Case," a tragi-comedy,
has not sufficient power to atone for the want of probability in the plot and want of nature
in the characters. The historical play of "Sir Thomas Wyatt" can only be fitly described by
using the favorite word in which Ben Jonson was wont to condense his critical opinions,--"It
is naught." But "The White Devil" and "The Duchess of Malfy" are tragedies which even so rich
and varied a literature as the English could not lose without a sensible diminution of its
treasures.

Webster was one of those writers whose genius consists in the expression of special moods,
and who, outside of those moods, cannot force their creative faculties into vigorous action.
His mind by instinctive sentiment was directed to the contemplation of the darker aspects of
life. He brooded over crime and misery until his imagination was enveloped in their atmosphere,
found a fearful joy in probing their sources and tracing their consequences, became strangely
familiar with their physiognomy and psychology, and felt a shuddering sympathy with their "deep
groans and terrible ghastly looks."

With this proclivity of his imagination, Webster's power as a dramatist consists in confining
the domain of his tragedy within definite limits, in excluding all variety of incident and
character which could interfere with his main design of awaking terror and pity, and in the
intensity with which he arrests, and the tenacity with which he holds the attention, as he
drags the mind along the pathway which begins in misfortune or guilt, and ends in death. He
is such a spendthrift of his stimulants, and accumulates horror on horror, and crime on crime,
with such fatal facility, that he would render the mind callous to his terrors, were it not
that what is acted is still less than what is suggested, and that the souls of his characters
are greater than their sufferings or more terrible than their deeds. The crimes and the criminals
belong to Italy as it was in the sixteenth century, when poisoning and assassination were almost
in the fashion; the feelings with which they are regarded are English; and the result of the
combination is to make the poisoners and assassins more fiendishly malignant in spirit than
they actually were. Thus Ferdinand, in "The Duchess of Malfy," is the conception formed by
an honest, deep-thoughted Englishman of an Italian duke and politician, who had been educated
in those maxims of policy which were generalized by Machiavelli. Webster makes him a devil,
but a devil with a soul to be damned. The Duchess, his sister, is discovered to be secretly
married to her steward; and in connection with his brother, the Cardinal, the Duke not only
resolves on her death, but devises a series of preliminary mental torments to madden and break
down her proud spirit. The first is an exhibition of wax figures, representing her husband
and children as they appeared in death. Then comes a dance of madmen, with dismal howls and
songs and speeches. Then a tomb-maker whose talk is of the charnel-house, and who taunts her
with her mortality. She interrupts his insulting homily with the exclamation, "Am I not thy
Duchess?" "Thou art," he scornfully replies, "some great woman sure, for riot begins to sit
on thy forehead (clad in gray hairs) twenty years sooner than on a merry milkmaid's. Thou sleepest
worse than if a mouse should be forced to take up her lodging in a cat's ear; a little infant
that breeds its teeth, should it lie with thee, would cry out, as if thou wert the more unquiet
bedfellow." This mockery only brings from her firm spirit the proud assertion, "I am Duchess
of Malfy still." Indeed, her mind becomes clearer and calmer as the tortures proceed. At first
she had imprecated curses on her brothers, and cried,

    "Plagues that make lanes through largest families,
    Consume them!" Her attendant, Cariola, screams out:

    "Hence, villains, tyrants, murderers: alas!
    What will you do with my lady? Call for help.

    "Duchess. To whom,--to our next neighbors?
    They are mad folks.

    "Bosola. Remove that noise.

    "Duchess. Farewell, Cariola.
    In my last will I have not much to give:
    A many hungry guests have fed upon me;
    Thine will be a poor reversion.

    "Cariola. I will die with her.

    "Duchess.

    "Bosola. Strangling; here are your executioners.

       *   *   *   *

    "Duchess. Pull, and pull strongly, for your able strength
    Must pull down heaven upon me:
    Yet stay, heaven-gates are not so highly arched
    As princes' palaces; they that enter there
    Must go upon their knees. Come, violent death.
    Serve for mandragora to make me sleep.
    Go, tell my brothers; when I am laid out,
    They then may feed in quiet."

The strange, unearthly stupor which precedes the remorse of Ferdinand for her murder is true
to nature, and especially his nature. Bosola, pointing to the dead body of the Duchess, says:

    "Fix your eye here.

    "Ferd. Constantly.

    "Bosola.             Do you not weep?
    Other sins only speak; murther shrieks out:
    The element of water moistens the earth,
    But blood flies upwards and bedews the heavens.

    "Ferd. Cover her face; mine eyes dazzle;
    She died young.

    "Bosola.     I think not so; her infelicity
    Seemed to have years too many.

    "Ferd.     She and I were twins:
    And should I die this instant, I had lived
    Her time to a minute."

We have said that Webster's peculiarity is the tenacity of his hold on the mental and moral
constitution of his characters. We know of their appetites and passions only by their effects
on their souls. He has properly no sensuousness. Thus in "The White Devil," his other great
tragedy, the events proceed from the passion of Brachiano for Vittoria Corombona,--a passion
so intense as to lead one to order the murder of his wife, and the other the murder of her
husband. If either Fletcher or Ford had attempted the subject, the sensual and emotional motives
to the crime would have been represented with overpowering force, and expressed in the most
alluring images, so that wickedness would have been almost resolved into weakness; but Webster
lifts the wickedness at once from the senses into the region of the soul, exhibits its results
in spiritual depravity, and shows the Satanic energy of purpose which may spring from the ruins
of the moral will. There is nothing lovable in Vittoria. She seems, indeed, almost without
sensations; and the affection between her and Brachiano is simply the magnetic attraction which
one evil spirit has for another evil spirit. Francisco, the brother of Brachiano's wife, says
to him:

    "Thou hast a wife, our sister; would I had given
    Both her white hands to death, bound and locked fast
    In her last winding-sheet, when I gave thee
    But one."

This is the language of the intensest passion, but as applied to the adulterous lover of Vittoria
it seems little more than the utterance of reasonable regret; for devil can only truly mate
with devil, and Vittoria is Brachiano's real "affinity."

The moral confusion they produce by their deeds is traced with more than Webster's usual steadiness
of nerve and clearness of vision. The evil they inflict is a cause of evil in others; the passion
which leads to murder rouses the fiercer passion which aches for vengeance; and at last, when
the avengers of crime have become morally as bad as the criminals, they are all involved in
a common destruction. Vittoria is probably Webster's most powerful delineation. Bold, bad,
proud, glittering in her baleful beauty, strong in that evil courage which shrinks from crime
as little as from danger, she meets her murderers with the same self-reliant scorn with which
she met her judges. "Kill her attendant first," exclaimed one of them.

    "Vittoria. You shall not kill her first; behold my breast:
    I will be waited on in death; my servant
    Shall never go before me.

    "Gasparo.     Are you so brave!

    "Vittoria.

    "Lodovico.     Strike, strike,
    With a joint motion.

    "Vittoria.

Webster tells us, in the Preface to "The White Devil," that he does not "write with a goose-quill
winged with two feathers"; and also hints that the play failed in representation through its
being acted in winter in "an open and black theatre," and because it wanted "a full and understanding
auditory." "Since that time," he sagely adds, "I have noted most of the people that come to
the playhouse resemble those ignorant asses who, visiting stationers' shops, their use is not
to inquire for good books, but new books." And then comes the ever-recurring wail of the playwright,
Elizabethan as well as Georgian, respecting the taste of audiences. "Should a man," he says,
"present to such an auditory the most sententious tragedy that ever was written, observing
all the critical laws, as height of style, and gravity of person, enrich it with the sententious
chorus, and, as it were, enliven death in the passionate and weighty Nuntius; yet after all
this divine rapture, O dura messorum ilia, the breath that comes from the uncapable multitude
is able to poison it."

Of all the contemporaries of Shakespeare, Webster is the most Shakespearian. His genius was
not only influenced by its contact with one side of Shakespeare's many-sided mind, but the
tragedies we have been considering abound in expressions and situations either suggested by
or directly copied from the tragedies of him he took for his model. Yet he seems to have had
no conception of the superiority of Shakespeare to all other dramatists; and in his Preface
to "The White Devil," after speaking of the "full and heightened style of Master Chapman, the
labored and understanding works of Master Jonson, the no less worthy composures of the both
worthily excellent Master Beaumont and Master Fletcher," he adds his approval, "without wrong
last to be named," of "the right happy and copious industry of Master Shakespeare, Master Dekkar,
and Master Heywood." This is not half so felicitous a classification as would be made by a
critic of our century, who should speak of the "right happy and copious industry" of Master
Goethe, Master Dickens, and Master G. P. R. James.

Webster's reference, however, to "the full and heightened style of Master Chapman" is more
appropriate; for no writer of that age impresses us more by a certain rude heroic height of
character than George Chapman. Born in 1559, and educated at the University of Oxford, he seems,
on his first entrance into London life, to have acquired the patronage of the noble, and the
friendship of all who valued genius and scholarship. He was among the few men whom Ben Jonson
said he loved. His greatest performance, and it was a gigantic one, was his translation of
Homer, which, in spite of obvious faults, excels all other translations in the power to rouse
and lift and inflame the mind. Some eminent painter, we believe Barry, said that, when he went
into the street after reading it, men seemed ten feet high. Pope averred that the translation
of the Iliad might be supposed to have been written by Homer before he arrived at years of
discretion; and Coleridge declares the version of the Odyssey to be as truly an original poem
as the Faery Queen. Chapman himself evidently thought that he was the first translator who
had been admitted into intimate relations with Homer's soul, and caught by direct contact the
sacred fury of his inspiration. He says finely of those who had attempted his work in other
languages:

    "They failed to search his deep and treasures heart.
    The cause was, since they wanted the fit key
    Of Nature, in their downright strength of art,
           With Poesy to open Poesy."

Chapman was also a voluminous dramatist, and of his many comedies and tragedies some sixteen
were printed. It is to be feared that the last twenty years of his long and honorable life
were passed in a desperate struggle for the means of subsistence. But his ideas of the dignity
of his art were so inwoven into his character that he probably met calamity bravely. Poesy
he early professed to prefer above all worldly wisdom, being composed, in his own words, of
the "sinews and souls of all learning, wisdom, and truth." "We have example sacred enough,"
he said, "that true Poesy's humility, poverty, and contempt are badges of divinity, not vanity.
Bray then, and bark against it, ye wolf-faced worldlings, that nothing but riches, honors,
and magistracy" can content "I (for my part) shall ever esteem it much more manly and sacred,
in this harmless and pious study, to sit until I sink into my grave, than shine in your vainglorious
bubbles and impieties; all your poor policies, wisdoms, and their trappings, at no more valuing
than a musty nut." These sentiments were probably fresh in his heart when, in 1634, friendless
and poor, at the age of seventy-five, he died. Anthony Wood describes him as "a person of most
reverend aspect, religious and temperate; qualities," he spitefully adds, "rarely meeting in
a poet."

Chapman was a man with great elements in his nature, which were so imperfectly harmonized that
what he was found but a stuttering expression in what he wrote and did. There were gaps in
his mind; or, to use Victor Hugo's image, "his intellect was a book with some leaves torn out."
His force, great as it was, was that of an Ajax, rather than that of an Achilles. Few dramatists
of the time afford nobler passages of description and reflection. Few are wiser, deeper, manlier
in their strain of thinking. But when we turn to the dramas from which these grand things have
been detached, we find extravagance, confusion, huge thoughts lying in helpless heaps, sublimity
in parts conducing to no general effect of sublimity, the movement lagging and unwieldy, and
the plot urged on to the catastrophe by incoherent expedients. His imagination partook of the
incompleteness of his intellect. Strong enough to clothe the ideas and emotions of a common
poet, it was plainly inadequate to embody the vast, half-formed conceptions which gasped for
expression in his soul in its moments of poetic exaltation. Often we feel his meaning, rather
than apprehend it. The imagery has the indefiniteness of distant objects seen by moonlight.
There are whole passages in his works in which he seems engaged in expressing Chapman to Chapman,
like the deaf egotist who only placed his trumpet to his ear when he himself talked.

This criticism applies more particularly to his tragedies, and to his expression of great sentiments
and passions. His comedies, though over-informed with thought, reveal him to us as a singularly
sharp, shrewd, and somewhat cynical observer, sparkling with worldly wisdom, and not deficient
in airiness any more than wit. Hazlitt, we believe, was the first to notice that Monsieur D'Olive,
in the comedy of that name, is "the undoubted prototype of that light, flippant, gay, and infinitely
delightful class of character, of the professed men of wit and pleasure about town, which we
have in such perfection in Wycherly and Congreve, such as Sparkish, Witwond, Petulant, &c.,
both in the sentiments and the style of writing"; and Tharsalio in "The Widow's Tears," and
Ludovico in "May-Day," have the hard impudence and cynical distrust of virtue, the arrogant
and glorying self-unrighteousness, that distinguish another class of characters which the dramatists
of the age of Charles and Anne were unwearied in providing with insolence and repartees. Occasionally
we have a jest which Falstaff would not disown. Thus in "May-Day," when Cuthbert, a barber,
approaches Quintiliano, to get, if possible, "certain odd crowns" the latter owes him, Quintiliano
says, "I think thou 'rt newly married?" "I am indeed, sir," is the reply. "I thought so; keep
on thy hat, man, 't will be the less perceived." Chapman, in his comedies generally, shows
a kind of philosophical contempt for woman, as a frailer and flimsier, if fairer, creature
than man, and he sustains his bad judgment with infinite ingenuity of wilful wit and penetration
of ungracious analysis. In "The Widow's Tears" this unpoetic infidelity to the sex pervades
the whole plot and incidents, as well as gives edge to many an incisive sarcasm. My sense,
says Tharsalio, "tells me how short-lived widows' tears are, that their weeping is in truth
but laughing under a mask, that they mourn in their gowns and laugh in their sleeves; all of
which I believe as a Delphian oracle, and am resolved to burn in that faith." "He," says Lodovico,
in "May-Day,"--he "that holds religious and sacred thought of a woman, he that holds so reverend
a respect to her that he will not touch her but with a kist hand and a timorous heart, he that
adores her like his goddess, let him be sure she will shun him like her slave.... Whereas nature
made" women "but half fools, we make 'em all fool: and this is our palpable flattery of them,
where they had rather have plain dealing." In all Chapman's comic writing there is something
of Ben Jonson's mental self-assertion and disdainful glee in his own superiority to the weakness
he satirizes.

In passing from a comedy like "May-Day" to a tragedy like "Bussy D'Ambois," we find some difficulty
in recognizing the features of the same nature. "Bussy D'Ambois" represents a mind not so much
in creation as in eruption, belching forth smoke, ashes, and stones, no less than flame. Pope
speaks of it as full of fustian; but fustian is rant in the words when there is no corresponding
rant in the soul; whilst Chapman's tragedy, like Marlowe's "Tamburlaine," indicates a greater
swell in the thoughts and passions of his characters than in their expression. The poetry is
to Shakespeare's what gold ore is to gold. Veins and lumps of the precious metal gleam on the
eye from the duller substance in which it is imbedded. Here are specimens:--

    "Man is torch borne in the wind; a dream
    But of a shadow, summed with all his substance;
    And as great seamen, using all their wealth
    And skills in Neptune's deep invisible paths,
    In tall ships richly built and ribbed with brass,
    To put a girdle round about the world,
    When they have done it (coming near their haven)
    Are fain to give a warning piece, and call
    A poor stayed fisherman, that never past
    His country's sight, to waft and guide them in:
    So when we wander furthest through the waves
    Of glassy glory and the gulfs of state,
    Topped with all titles, spreading all our reaches,
    As if each private arm would sphere the earth,
    We must to Virtue for her guide resort,
    Or we shall shipwreck in our safest port."

              "In a king
    All places are contained. His words and looks
    Are like the flashes and the bolts of Jove;
    His deeds inimitable, like the sea
    That shuts still as it opes, and leaves no tracks,
    Nor prints of precedent for mean men's acts."

    "His great heart will not down: 't is like the sea
    That partly by his own internal heat,
    Partly the stars' daily and nightly motion,
    Their heat and light, and partly of the place
    The divers frames, but chiefly by the moon
    Bristled with surges, never will be won,
    (No, not when th' hearts of all those powers are burst,)
    To make retreat into his settled home,
    Till he be crowned with his own quiet foam."

    "Now, all ye peaceful regents of the night,
    Silently gliding exhalations,
    Languishing winds, and murmuring falls of waters,
    Sadness of heart, and ominous secureness,
    Enchantments, dead sleeps, all the friends of rest
    That ever wrought upon the life of man,
    Extend your utmost strengths; and this charmed hour
    Fix like the centre."

              "There is One
    That wakes above, whose eye no sleep can bind:
    He sees through doors and darkness and our thoughts."

            "O, the dangerous siege
    Sin lays about us! and the tyranny
    He exercises when he hath expugned:
    Like to the horror of a winter's thunder,
    Mixed with a gushing storm, that suffer nothing
    To stir abroad on earth but their own rages,
    Is sin, when it hath gathered head above us."

It is hardly possible to read Chapman's serious verse without feeling that he had in him the
elements of a great nature, and that he was a magnificent specimen of what is called "irregular
genius." And one of his poems, the dedication of his translation of the Iliad to Prince Henry,
is of so noble a strain, and from so high a mood, that, while borne along with its rapture,
we are tempted to place him in the first rank of poets and of men. You can feel and hear the
throbs of the grand old poet's heart in such lines as these:--

              "O, 't is wondrous much,
    Though nothing prized, that the right virtuous touch
    Of a well-written soul to virtue moves;
    Nor have we souls to purpose, if their loves
    Of fitting objects be not so inflamed.
    How much were then this kingdom's main soul maimed,
    To want this great inflamer of all powers
    That move in human souls.

       *   *   *   *

    Through all the pomp of kingdoms still he shines,
    And graceth all his gracers.

       *   *   *   *

    A prince's statue, or in marble carved,
    Or steel, or gold, and shrined, to be preserved,
    Aloft on pillars and pyramides,
    Time into lowest ruins may depress;
    But drawn with all his virtues in learned verse,
    Fame shall resound them on oblivion's hearse,
    Till graves gasp with their blasts, and dead men rise."

OUR PACIFIC RAILROADS.

Two thirds of the United States lie west of the Mississippi River. This vast domain has already
exercised a tremendous influence over our political destiny. The Territories were the immediate
occasion of our civil war. During an entire generation they furnished the arena for the prelusive
strife of that war. The Missouri Compromise was to us of the East a flag of truce. But neither
nature nor the men who populated the Western Territories recognized this flag. The vexed question
of party platforms and sectional debate, the right and the reason of slavery, solved itself
in the West with a freedom and rough rapidity natural to the soil and its population. Climatic
limitations and prohibitions went hand in hand with the inflow of an emigration mainly from
the Northern States,--an emigration fostered by political emotions and fevered by political
injustice. While the South was menacing and the North deprecating war, far removed from this
tumult of words the conflict was going on, and was being decided. And it was because slavery
was doomed in the great West, and therefore in the nation, that rebellion ensued.

It is worthy of note that the same generation which witnessed the growth of the Calhoun school
of politics in the South, and of the Free Soil and (afterward) the Republican party in the
North, and which followed with intense interest the stages of the Territorial struggle, witnessed
also the employment of steam and electricity as agents of human progress. These agents, these
organs of velocity, abbreviating time and space, said, Let the West be East; and before the
locomotive the West fled from Buffalo to Chicago, across the prairies, the Rocky Mountains,
the desert steppes beyond, and down the Pacific slope, until it stared the Orient into a self-contradiction.

It was on the part of our government a sublime recognition of the power of steam, that, while
it was struggling for existence, it gave its sanction to the Pacific Railroad enterprise. Curiously
enough, it is through Kansas and Nebraska--the Epidaurus of our Peloponnesian war--that the
two great rival Pacific Railroad routes are to run.

In the summer of 1861, the project of a trans-continental railway connecting our Pacific communities
with the older population of the East first assumed a practical aspect. For nearly three decades
the nation had been dreaming of the scheme, but it had done little more than dream. Almost
with the earliest track-laying in America, a visionary New-Yorker startled a sceptical generation
by proclaiming the age of steam, and pointing at the locomotive as the instrument whereby men
should yet penetrate the mysterious depths of the Far West, and secure for our growing commerce
the prize of Asiatic wealth. Curious readers will find in the New York Courier and Enquirer
of 1837 an article by Dr. Hartley Carver, advocating a Pacific Railroad; and in view of how
little was known at this time of the country beyond the Alleghanies,--so little, indeed, that
the Territories of the extreme West had no definite outline, but were measured from the crest
of the Rocky Mountains,--the audacity of the proposition might justly have inspired suspicions
of the sanity of its author. But if Dr. Carver was chimerical, he was at least courageous in
his persistence. Ten years later, this lineal descendant of old John Carver transferred the
question from the arena of newspaper discussion, and boldly memorialized Congress. Here he
found a rival advocate in Asa Whitney, whose brain throbbed with the glowing possibilities
of the Chinese trade, while his specious statistics and contagious eloquence arrested public
attention. Neither of these projectors, however, found the atmosphere of Washington propitious.
Failing there, they once more had recourse to the press. The discovery of gold in California
gave fresh vigor to the agitation. In 1850, that notable railroad king, William B. Ogden, lent
his name to the enterprise, and by his cogent and well-considered appeals excited confidence
in statesmen and capitalists. Three years after, Congress yielded to the popular pressure,
and ordered those surveys, the result of which lies in eleven bulky departmental volumes, and
bears the name of "Pacific Railroad Reports." Then came the Fremont campaign, with its burning
enthusiasm, the Pacific Railroad plank in the Republican platform, and the defeat which was
almost a victory. The succeeding year a strong effort was made to secure a national charter;
but though supported by the Senate, the measure failed to carry in the Lower House.

This disastrous rebuff at Washington produced a profound indignation throughout wide sections;
yet it may be questioned whether the arguments on which the railway scheme was based were sufficiently
solid to justify such encouragement to the investment of floating capital as the passage of
the bill would have implied. Beyond the Missouri River, even on the line of Western travel,
population was as sparsely scattered as in an Indian reservation. Neither the gold reaches
of Colorado nor the silver-bearing "leads" of the Washoe district had as yet been discovered.
California was known only as a region of placer-digging, and its agricultural capacities were
very inadequately comprehended. Nor had the Pacific Steamship Company ventured to create its
China line. A railroad certain to cost one hundred and forty millions, as the War Department
asserted, had in prospect for an immediate revenue only the meagre trade of Salt Lake City,
and the freightage of bullion from the Pacific shore. Indeed, the prevailing faith in the enterprise
almost passes belief, when it is remembered that no satisfactory survey had been made of the
Sierra Nevada. That terrible pile of snow-crowned peaks, of deep-sunk ravines, of jagged ridges
and perilous chasms, where the winding bridle-track scarcely permits a driver to walk beside
his mule, seemed to defy the skill of our boldest engineers. Overland travellers reported depths
of snow varying from twenty to fifty feet. Fearful stories were narrated of luckless wagon-trains
caught in the narrow defiles by sudden mountain storms, and perishing helplessly amid these
Alpine rigors. It was surely a legitimate question whether a railroad were possible in the
face of such embarrassments; and it is fair to attribute the adverse action of Congress to
these considerations, rather than to occult and scarcely explicable sectional motives.

At the commencement of the next decade, all this, however, was changed. California had developed
into a rich grape-producing country. Its cereals were beyond the demands of local consumption.
A considerable trade had sprung up with Oregon, the Sandwich Islands, and latterly with China.
The production of quicksilver was on the increase. Valuable copper mines had recently been
opened. Moreover, the immense gold seams of Colorado, the vast silver deposits in Nevada, and
the auriferous quartz of Idaho, were disclosed almost simultaneously, diverting population
to the interior table-lands, and calling loudly for an economical method of transit. Upon the
Pacific shore, the desire for a through road suddenly became intensified, while the profitableness
of a railway, at least to the Humboldt Sink, became more and more apparent. If only the Sierra
might be pierced! That appalling obstacle still threw its shadow over the enterprise. Fortunately,
at this very crisis there wandered down from the mountain, in the pleasant summer days, a railway
surveyor and engineer, Theodore D. Judah, who had had extensive Eastern experiences, and Californian
as well. He was a thin, short, light-haired Massachusetts man, enthusiastic, conscientious,
cautious, and with a quick eye for discovering the opportunities of science amid the obstacles
of nature,--a trait which in an engineer is rightly named genius. While engaged in the survey
of private claims, he had worked out what appeared, on a hurried examination, to be a perfectly
feasible route through the hills. At Sacramento he modestly stated this belief; and in a resident
merchant, Mr. C. P. Huntington, he found a willing listener. Mr. Huntington, who is to the
California end of the Pacific Railroad what Durant is to the co-operating Nebraska branch,
describes in graphic language the earnest consultations, prolonged for several weeks, which
he and a few other friends held in Leland Stanford's store after the day's business was through.
There were seven of these men all told, not one of them worth less than half a million, and
each ready to stake his entire property in the enterprise, if it promised success. The maps
of the new-comer were consulted, the lines carefully studied, and the result of their deliberations
was the temporary organization of what is now known as the Central Pacific Railroad Company
of California. The engineer in whose representations so much confidence was placed soon proved
that he was worthy of that confidence; money was forthcoming; an adequate surveying party was
sent out; and in the summer months of 1861, Judah demonstrated the existence of a route by
the South Yuba River and the Donner Pass greatly superior to all other projected lines, with
no insuperable engineering difficulties, and capable of defence against all interruption by
freshet or snow. In the mean while the State Legislature had granted a charter to the incorporators
in July; and at the first stockholders' meeting Stanford was elected president and Huntington
vice-president of the company. It was evident, however, that an undertaking of such vast dimensions
could not be completed without government help; and the Sacramento party, confident that in
Mr. Judah's surveys lay the solution of the Pacific problem, repaired at once to Washington,
and opened anew the railroad agitation.

While the energy of the West was still engaged in penetrating the secrets of the formidable
Sierra, a movement meaning work began to develop itself on the Eastern border. As a general
statement, and without reference to individual routes, it may be said that in the Northern
cis-Mississippi States there are two separate railroad systems, running in lines about parallel
from east to west; the upper combination of routes debouching at Chicago, the lower, or central,
at St. Louis. These lines are slightly entangled with the roads concentrating at Cincinnati
and Indianapolis; but the division into an upper and lower route is sufficiently preserved
to admit of distinct classification. The capitalists of both the great cities which form the
terminal points of these systems had long been equally alive to the vast possibilities of the
Pacific trade, and were eager, not only from local pride, but also from knowledge of the simplest
principles of commercial policy, to secure to their respective communities the main bulk of
this immense prospective traffic. With this view, Chicago had projected three lines across
the State of Iowa, all of which were ultimately to converge at Council Bluffs. Thence across
the coffee-colored Missouri, over rolling prairies, and up the slowly curving line of the Platte,
stretched an easily rising ascent, which, engineers affirmed, had been graduated by nature
as the most direct and practicable route for the interoceanic railroad. As yet no one of these
Iowa lines was complete; but they all had a corporate existence, and their stockholders formed
a nucleus for a distinct Pacific movement.

St Louis, on the other hand, aided by the State of which it was the commercial capital, had
as early as 1851 commenced the construction of the Missouri Pacific Railway, whose line shot
straight as an arrow westward across the State, curving slightly to the north at its terminus,
which was fixed at Kansas City. Four years later, the Territorial government of Kansas incorporated
the Leavenworth, Pawnee, and Western Railroad, with privilege to build from Leavenworth to
Fort Riley, and thence westerly. It is apparent that the two companies might readily connect,
and thus form a rival grand trunk Pacific road.

Both the upper and the lower-enterprises, however, remained for many years after their inception
in a quiescent state, serving simply as topics of newspaper discussion, or of buncombe addresses
from local rostrums. But in 1860-61 the unexpected discovery of large deposits of the precious
metals in Colorado and in Nevada gave an enormous impulse to the carrying trade of the plains,
and the same argument which proved so cogent in California aroused the Western capitalists
from their lethargy. Rumors of the new line over the Sierra also found their way East; and
the Legislature of Kansas, now a young and vigorous State, passed a joint resolution in March,
1862, urging on Congress the immediate creation of a national Pacific Railroad Company. In
anticipation of this action, the agents of the lower route had already proceeded to Washington,
where they found themselves suddenly in the presence, not only of the representatives of the
Central Company of California, but also of the Chicago projectors and their New York friends.

It will scarcely be profitable at the present time to descend into the particulars of the rivalry
which interests in many respects so divergent necessarily entailed. A gentleman who had singular
opportunities for arriving at an unprejudiced judgment recently informed the writer of this
article that one company alone employed the element of "influence" to the extent of three millions
of dollars, or its supposed equivalent. Facts of this nature, however, are outside of our purpose;
and we shall limit our illustration of the character of the struggle to a brief glance at the
curious tangle of compromises which the charter itself presents. Passed in the Lower House
by a catch vote, and pushed with difficulty through the Senate by appeals to party pledges,
by unimpeachable proofs of the feasibility of the scheme and the financial integrity of its
advocates, and above all by intimations amounting almost to threats of a possible secession
of the Pacific communities, the act of 1862 bears the evidence of a conflict of purposes in
almost every one of its sections. It is evident, for example, that, with the tide of civil
war beating fiercely around the national capital, Congress was still under the spell of the
past, and severely distrustful of any avoidable increase of public obligations. Bonds were
loaned to the enterprise at the rate of sixteen thousand dollars per mile for the easy work,
with treble aid for the mountain division and double for the Salt Lake Valley; but this loan
was made a first mortgage, twenty-five per cent, was reserved till the completion of the road,
and the transit business of government was to be paid solely by the extinguishment of the bonded
debt. The land grant also was but six thousand four hundred acres per mile. The clashing interests
of St. Louis and Chicago are shown in the ignoring of any special eastern terminus, and the
location of the initial point of a new trunk road upon the one hundredth meridian, at some
equidistant station, to be designated by the President. As the Kansas party was already possessed
of an organization, the charter modified this advantage by incorporating the Nebraska line[B],
under the name of the Union Pacific Company, and gave it a predominant place in the specifications
of the act. The aid of government, however, was proffered in equal degree to the road which
was to cross the mountains from Sacramento, and to both the Eastern lines; the last two being
required to complete a hundred miles each within two years after they had respectively filed
their assent to the terms of the act, while the Central was to build at the rate of twenty-five
miles a year up the ridges of the Sierra.

In hard-currency times, and with the labor and iron market easy, these terms might have been
sufficient to invite the ready aid of capital. But the close of 1862 and the year succeeding
were the darkest periods of the war. Gold vibrated from 140 to 180. Iron, which in 1859, sold
for $35 a ton, was now selling for $130. Moreover, while money was tight, labor was also scarce.
The two great agencies on which a vast public work like this must inevitably depend proved
utterly inadequate to the emergency. Nevertheless, both the companies which had already an
organic existence bent themselves with no inconsiderable vigor to their task. The Central Pacific
accepted the responsibilities and obligations of the charter six months after its passage,
and commenced the work of grading in the succeeding February. Rails, chairs, and rolling stock
were forwarded by sea, involving heavy expenditures for freightage, and a ten per cent war
risk on insurance. The company endured further embarrassments from the lack of capital, and
the fact that in California a metallic currency formed the only circulating medium. Nor was
it the least of its difficulties that the enterprise met with an ambiguous reception in many
portions of the State, San Francisco especially regarding it with cold indifference. The zeal
with which the road was pushed amid these embarrassments is a striking evidence of the thorough
faith of its projectors. Although it soon became apparent that further legislation would be
needed to relieve them from the disabilities inherent in the meagreness of the government subsidy,
they nevertheless succeeded by the 6th of June, 1864, in cutting their line through to New
Castle, and in laying thereon a solid and continuous track.

In Kansas, the Leavenworth, Pawnee, and Western Railroad Company or, as they were beginning
to style themselves the Union Pacific Railway, Eastern Division, had contracted for an immediate
and rapid construction of their line as early as September 30th. By the spring of 1863, the
contractors, Messrs. Ross, Steele, & Co., had involved themselves to the extent of five millions,
of dollars, and were in full operation with an adequate corps of laborers, grading, quarrying
stone, building culverts, etc. Suddenly, however, all this busy movement ceased. By one of
those strange revolutions that occasionally occur in the management of corporations, a man
notorious throughout the whole border, familiarly called Sam Hallet, assumed control of the
company, denounced the contract as in nowise valid, and peremptorily ordered the agents of
the contracting party to abandon the work. The agents refused. Affairs now assumed the aspect
of war. Hallet procured a company of United States dragoons from Fort Leavenworth, and rode
down upon the contumacious contractors. The result of this cavalry dash is rather picturesquely
described in a letter of this novel railroad general, dated August 15, 1863:--

"I have had an awful row with Carter, a battle on the works, and a sharp 'pitch in' to get
possession; we drove them back, and into the river, until they cried enough. S. S. Sharp, my
foreman Section No. 1, led Carter to the river-bank by the collar; and but for his begging,
he would have ducked him. I expect Steele and Carter on again with reinforcements. Let them
come! We will put them into the river the next time. We have had to use strong force, quick
and bold. We have taken all their ties, houses, and works, and shall hold them."

Triumphant on the battle-field, Hallet now made a rapid counter-movement, and effected a transfer
of the ownership of the company to a new set of capitalists, putting them into immediate possession
of the entire property of the old corporation. Of the legal merits of this singular manoeuvre
we are not prepared to give an opinion; but it is proper for us to add, that it met with vigorous
resistance on the part of the former stockholders, at the head of whom stood Fremont. Sharp
litigations and stormy altercations ensued; and for many months most vital to its interests
the whole Kansas enterprise was shut from view.

While these two companies were moving forward, the one steadily overcoming financial and engineering
difficulties, the other plunging into an inexplicable imbroglio of contested management and
contested contracts, that great combination of capitalists which held the destinies of the
Union Pacific met at Chicago in September, 1862, and took the preliminary steps for the formation
of a company. Books for stock subscriptions were opened in every loyal State and Territory.
In June of the next year the acceptance of the charter by a provisional direction was filed
at Washington. Nevertheless, an annoying apathy filled the public mind. Capital was shy of
the enterprise. The terms of the act of 1862 were deemed unsatisfactory. Up to August, 1863,
only about eighty thousand dollars had been subscribed.

At this point, Thomas C. Durant, whose connection with Western roads had inspired so much faith
in the Pacific project, threw the weight of his capital and influence so determinately into
the scale, that by October the subscriptions had reached two millions, and the company was
in a condition to organize. Major-General John A. Dix was elected president, Dr. Durant became
vice-president and general manager, and the preliminary survey which he had ordered at his
personal expense was approved and officially adopted by the direction. As, however, a wide-spread
feeling existed, not only that additional legislation was necessary, but that it might also
be obtained, the company contented itself that year with the selection of its eastern terminus.
President Lincoln was consulted; and, acting upon his unofficial sanction, the Union Pacific
broke ground for the railroad at Omaha, then a struggling village in Nebraska Territory, nearly
opposite Council Bluffs. The inaugural ceremony took place December 2d, and with this event
the year closed.

For the next few months the efforts of all the companies converged upon Congress. The Union
Pacific Company appeared at Washington in great force. The Central, equally urgent, presented
arguments that amounted to demonstration; the chief points being the energy with which they
had striven to comply with the terms of the charter, and the painful failure that had attended
their endeavor,--a failure clearly imputable to the insufficiency of the original bill. The
Kansas Company, though rent in twain by rival boards of directors, was also on the ground,
animated by very ambitious purposes, and with a determination to win its ends in spite of internal
complications. The vigor with which the latter body took the field gave a complex character
to the struggle, and very much prolonged it. On vital points, however, all parties were in
accord, and in the main results of the campaign each achieved a splendid success. The supplementary
bill, approved July 2, 1864, as much surpassed the legislation of two years previous as the
sixteen hundred million national debt of 1864 exceeded the five-hundred million debt of 1862;
The colossal expenditures of the war had led Congressmen to accept the estimates of railroad
men with implicit credence, and to second their demands with generosity. The land grant was
doubled, the government bonds were made a second lien to the roads under construction, the
twenty-five per cent reservation was removed, and one half of government business was to be
paid in money.

The Union Pacific Company effected an important modification of the charter in respect to their
particular interests. Their maximum capital was still fixed at one hundred millions, but individual
shares were lowered from a thousand to a hundred dollars each. Furthermore, the hitherto unwieldy
board of direction was limited to fifteen members. On the other hand, the Kansas organization
obtained the privilege of making their own road the grand trunk route, connecting with the
Central Pacific, in case they should anticipate the Nebraska line in reaching the one hundredth
meridian, and the latter road should not appear to be proceeding in good faith.

As the act which bestowed such signal favors had granted an extension of a year for the completion
of the first division of each road, the Union Pacific was under no absolute compulsion to hasten
its work. Nevertheless, surveying parties were kept in the field, and the contract for the
construction of the road to the one hundredth meridian was signed in August. This agreement,
though nominally known, as the Hoxie contract, derived the guaranty of its performance from
the Credit Mobilier,--an organization with an actual capital of two millions and a half, recently
created upon the model of the great Paris corporation, and in the hands of a few moneyed men
whose enterprise and energy were admirably proportioned to their large wealth. Its heaviest
capitalists were also stockholders in the projected road; and as payment was to be made in
bonds and shares, the Credit Mobilier at once became an over-shadowing stockholder in the Union
Pacific. The arrangement at a subsequent period may not have been wholly beneficial; but at
the date of the contract the alliance was of incalculable importance. Although two millions
of stock had been subscribed, the Nebraska line had in reality only twenty thousand dollars
in its treasury. Without the Credit Mobilier, it would have faltered on the threshold of success.
Even with this powerful auxiliary, it was not yet strong enough to prevent an unexpected and
vexatious delay.

The first forty miles west from Omaha had been intrusted to Peter A. Dey, an engineer of some
experience in the West. This gentleman, whose ideas seem to have been limited to a straight
line, had constructed a track satisfactory in its alignments, but with a maximum grade of eighty
feet per mile, and involving temporary grading of one hundred and sixteen feet at several points
of the route. A later survey, made under the supervision of Colonel Seymour, demonstrated the
existence of a far better line with forty-feet grades and but nine miles longer. Placed upon
abstract grounds, there was no question of the relative advantage of the two routes. The combined
opinion of several of the most skilful railroad managers in the country was unanimous for the
lower grade, as essential to rapid and economical transportation. But there was another element
in the case which gave a different aspect to the affair. Dey's line terminated at Omaha; Seymour's,
at Bellevue. If the new route were selected, all the magnificent dreams of the Omaha land speculators
would be summarily dispelled. The territorial population caught the alarm. Public meetings
were called. A committee was sent post to Washington. It was asserted, on grounds that were
not destitute of plausibility, that the change was attributable quite as much to motives of
a stock-jobbing order, as to economic considerations. To this charge Dr. Durant indignantly
replied, but this did not appease the clamor. Nor was the dispute ended until after five months
of tedious investigation, and a guaranteed promise on the part of the company, that, in adopting
the new line, there should be no alteration of terminus.

While Omaha was still in the white-heat of excitement, the contractors had been steadily employed
in collecting material for a grand industrial campaign. Distant, in the line of travel then
open to them, more than sixteen hundred miles from New York, with the Missouri River as their
main avenue for the transportation of rolling stock and machinery west of St. Louis, the men
who had undertaken to build the road bent themselves to the task with a vigor and celerity
heretofore unequalled in railroad history. Iron from New England, shipped in coasting-vessels,
and working its slow way through the Gulf of Mexico and up the knotted bends of the Mississippi;
iron, from Pennsylvania by the lower route, and from New York by upper lines; iron in all conditions
and shapes, from rails, chains, and spikes, to car-wheels and steam-engines,--came pouring
in week by week, a tonnage beyond all estimate or comparison, and involving, from the want
of rail connections, unparalleled expenditures. The transportation of one class of freight
alone cost thirteen hundred thousand dollars. All other expenses were upon the same magnificent
scale. Nebraska, though admirably adapted for agriculture, is singularly destitute of woodland.
The lumber for building, and the cross-ties for track-laying, could only be obtained in small
quantities and at great distances. Many of the sleepers travelled two hundred miles before
they found repose on the road-bed. The labor market also was but scantily supplied, and agents
for procuring navvies were despatched east, west, and south. But the splendid energy of the
contractors had been fruitful of success. A vast aggregate of forces stood ready at the melting
of the winter's snow and the click of the telegraph key to spring into enormous activity.

About the middle of April, 1866, the message came, and the work began. Along the dead level
of the Platte Valley, through endless reaches of prairie, and behind the meagre shelter of
outlying hills, the rails are still falling in place,--a continuous belt of iron out-rolled
over black loam and arid sand,--mile after mile, day after day; and with the close of the present
year there will stretch an unbroken line of five hundred and twenty miles of rail across the
Plains to the foot of the Black Hills. There is no occasion to dilate upon the wonderful systemization
of labor which has characterized the work of construction. The public is already well apprised
of the details, from the pens of industrious and graphic newspaper correspondents. The company
itself has been by no means laggard in celebrating its enterprise. Excursion parties of capitalists,
editors, and Congressmen have severally given in their testimony; but, after all, the one fact
that in less than twenty months American energy has brought the Rocky Mountains within two
and one half days' journey of New York--though the distance is two thousand miles--tells the
whole story. One of the chief difficulties of this Nebraska route has been, as we have intimated,
the scarcity of suitable material for cross-ties, and of fuel for the engines. The employment
of Burnetized cottonwood, and the discovery of a very considerable quantity of cedar in the
interior, have, however, effectually solved one phase of this problem; while for the production
of steam science now offers petroleum as a practical substitute for wood and coal. But independently
of this, the road has already reached the bituminous beds of the Black Hills, where it will
probably find a plentiful supply for its necessities. Water also is obtained in sufficient
quantities by digging from ten to twenty feet down, to the sand which filters the waters of
the Platte.

Shortly after the Nebraska Company had thrown off the drag-weight of local embarrassment, the
Kansas line began to disentangle itself from legal complications; and on July 1, 1865, the
enterprise passed into the hands of a management which, if powerless to retrieve the past,
was at least determined to make the future secure. At the head of this new organization was
John D. Perry of St Louis; and associated with him were a body of capitalists in Missouri and
Pennsylvania whose financial ability was unquestioned, and who have since evinced a vigor and
commercial prescience which elevate them to the level of their Eastern rivals. Perceiving that
the miserable Fremont-Hallet quarrel had effectually frustrated all rivalry in the construction
of a track to the one hundredth meridian, they made application to Congress for an extension
of their line to Denver, by the Smoky Hill Fork, with the privilege of connecting at that point
with the Union Pacific. The request was readily granted, and the usual land gift of twelve
thousand eight hundred acres per mile accorded for the entire route. No further issue of government
bonds was allowed; but as the company was now possessed of adequate capital, and as the loans
to the other companies must all eventually be paid back, there was really very little difference
in financial advantage on the side of the Nebraska line. Moreover, the slight balance against
the Kansas route was quite made up in the greater fertility of the soil which it would traverse,
and the large preponderance of its local business, the population along the line being treble
that of the upper road. These considerations gave an elasticity to the Kansas project, and
under the new management the work of construction has gone on rapidly. The present year will
probably find the road halting at not less than three hundred and fifty miles west of Wyandotte,
now the junction-point of the Union Pacific, Eastern Division, with the Missouri Pacific Railroad.
But this company is not satisfied with a simple connection with the Nebraska road. It proposes,
after making this connection, to continue its main line to San Francisco by an extensive detour
southward, avoiding the difficult mountain systems between Denver and Sacramento, and at the
same time availing itself of that immense trade which lies visible or latent throughout Arizona,
New Mexico, and Southern California. Escaping the overwhelming snows of the Rocky Mountains,
this route will pass through a salubrious region abounding in timber and bituminous coal.[C]
By intersecting the Rio Grande at Albuquerque, it will hold out to the Southern States a tempting
invitation to form connections, and share to the fullest extent in the benefits of this great
national enterprise. In this way the Pacific Railroad stands ready to second Congress in the
work of "reconstruction."

Of the Central Pacific Road we have not as yet spoken adequately, and shall now be compelled
to give the history of its achievements in a wholly insufficient space. Unlike the Eastern
roads, it has allowed no pause in its work from the day of the first track-laying to the present
moment. Unlike these roads, also, it has had to contend with great engineering difficulties
from the start, while the material for its construction required to be brought over distances
to which the transportation annoyances of the other lines offer no parallel. All the rolling
stock, rails, etc. doubled Cape Horn. The timber for the trestle-work of bridges was brought
from Puget's Sound. For laborers it had recourse to China. To reach the crest of the Sierra,
they were obliged to pierce the hillsides fifteen times, the tunnelling alone amounting in
continuous line to 6,262 feet. The eight-hour labor movement was an additional embarrassment.
Embankments built up with incalculable labor, and protected by every device of engineering
science, settled in many cases, and were repaired only after much delay and vast expense. Nevertheless,
the indomitable projectors of the enterprise have proved themselves equal to their task. The
Summit Tunnel was cut through in August of this year; and by November the road will have been
extended, not only to the crest of the mountains, but far down the eastern slope. Hunter's,
which is the wagon depot of the Nevada miners, two hundred and seventy-four miles from San
Francisco, and one hundred and fifty miles from Sacramento, is the point which the locomotive
is certain to reach by the close of 1867.[D]

Thus far there have been built six hundred and fifty miles of completed road. Adding the water
route to San Francisco, there are about eight hundred miles of continuous steam communication.
Despite also the bleakness of the Plains in winter, and the protracted rigors of the Sierra,
it is demonstrated that snow can be no more an obstacle to the railroads than icebergs have
proved to the Atlantic cable. Including the Eastern connections with New York as the Atlantic
terminus, we have, therefore, two thousand two hundred and fifty miles of the interoceanic
railroad already in actual operation.

From Hunter's, in Nevada, to the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains, stretches the long space
of unfinished work, ten hundred and fifty-four miles of railroad line, with three sharp crests
and a gently rolling intra-mountain desert, where the dew never falls, where the twilight lingers
long into the evening, and the eye wearies of the wastes of sage-bush, and the tracts of scant
grass between arid breadths of dazzling white alkaline sand. A glance at the grades discloses
one of the difficulties with which the Union Pacific has now to grapple. From the Black Hills,
within thirty miles the track must rise to its first and loftiest ascent, 8,242 feet above
the sea-level. Then comes a descent of a thousand feet for the same distance, succeeded by
equal alternations of rise and fall for eight successive points. Beyond Bear River, however,
these gigantic mountain waves lengthen, and the vast interior basin rolls broadly and heavily,
with an average level of forty-five hundred feet, past Weber Canon and Humboldt Wells. Here
the line strikes Humboldt River, and runs southwesterly to the Big Bend of the Truckee River,
along a region singularly favorable in its alignments, and described as well supplied with
wood and water. In this respect recent surveys essentially corroborate the testimony of Fremont.

The difficulties to be overcome by the Central Pacific in its route over and through the mountains
to meet its eastern branches have already been described. But, notwithstanding these, the company
claims that it can readily construct its line at the rate of one mile per day for five hundred
working-days. It has nearly ten thousand laborers at work, most of them Chinese. The portion
of the road completed, with its excellent rails, its ties of red-wood and tamarack, and its
granite culverts, has elicited praise from government commissioners for the thoroughness of
its execution.

Though none of the routes are as yet completed, the net earnings of each of the three companies,
over and above the interest on its bonds, have surpassed all expectation. In 1865 and 1866
the net earnings of the Central Road amounted to $936,000 in gold, and in 1867 they are estimated
at one million dollars; and this surplus is applied to the construction of the road. The net
earnings of the Union Pacific (Nebraska) Road for the quarter ending July 31, 1867, were $376,589
in currency. Those of the Eastern or Kansas branch, for the month of August alone, $235,000.
Of course these estimates of the profit of the roads under the present circumstances are but
faint indications of the wealth which must accrue to them upon their completion, and after
the fuller development of the resources upon which they depend. At the sources of this future
wealth we shall glance presently.

There can be no possible occasion for rivalry between these three companies. Each road will
take its place in the great work of interoceanic communication, and each will find its capacities
meagre as compared with the commerce which awaits it. But apart from a merely commercial view,
there are certain points of comparison between the various routes which demand a brief notice.
The Kansas route will probably prove most attractive to the tourists, especially in the event
of its making the detour through New Mexico above alluded to. The Nebraska route will be more
monotonous, running across the level and treeless valley of the Platte for three hundred miles.
To the traveller there will always be presented the same swift but shallow river at his side,
the same bare, misty hills along the horizon, the same limitless stretch of the plain before
and behind, and the same solitary sky above, save as it is varied by sunrise and sunset, until
the Black Hills come to his relief, and he enters upon the snow-whelmed Sierra. The Central
route is more picturesque, and also has more elements of grandeur, than either of the others.
The Nebraska Road, on account of the character of the country through which it passes, will
probably derive its main revenue from the through trade; while the Kansas--if its present purpose
be carried out--will depend upon the local trade and its multifarious connections.

Having traced the history of these Pacific roads, the difficulties which they have met and
in a large degree conquered, and their general features, our consideration of them must from
this point grow out of their national importance and world-wide significance. For the Pacific
Railroad is not simply a gigantic public work, it is the world's great highway. The world has
had several grand routes, along the line of which, for certain periods of time, the life-blood
and intelligence of humanity have coursed. Such was the route which history discloses as the
most ancient from India overland to the Mediterranean, whence it was continued by that old
Phoenician Coast Navigation Company to the shores of Britain. Along this overland line grew
up the great cities of Asia, depending upon it for their wealth, refinement, and power; and
when commerce was diverted from the inland, and the riches of India took the ocean path westward,
the glory of these cities departed. Such also was that later route which gave the Italian cities
their opulence and strength in the Middle Ages. When the Cape of Good Hope was doubled, these
Italian centres grew comparatively weak and lustreless. The Roman road to Britain laid the
foundation of that power, the full development of which has given to London its present position
as the European metropolis. New York City also owes her rapid and stupendous growth to that
peculiar conjunction of circumstances which has secured her the control of the grand Transatlantic
commercial route of present times. The railroads leading westward from that city, converging
upon the termini of the Pacific lines, continue this world-route of the incoming era to San
Francisco, and there, through the Golden Gate, we grasp the wealth of Eastern Asia, whence
the first great world-route started. Events more powerful than tradition have thus revolutionized
the old system of travel and commerce, calling them eastward. America becomes at once interoceanic
and mediterranean, commanding the two oceans, and mediating between Europe and Asia. By the
Pacific Railroad, Hong Kong via New York is only forty days distant from London. The tea and
silks of China and the products of the Spice Islands must pass through America to Europe. In
this connection, also, there is a profound significance in our alliance, every year growing
stronger, with Russia, whose extreme southern boundary joins Japan, our latest and warmest
Asiatic ally.

But the development of American commercial power as against the world is secondary to the internal
development of our own resources, and to the indissoluble bond of national union afforded by
this inland route from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and by its future connections with every
portion of our territory. In thirty years, California will have a population equal to that
of New York to-day, and yet not be half full, and the city of St. Louis will number a million
of souls. New York City and San Francisco, as the two great entrepôts of trade; Chicago and
St. Louis as its two vital centres; and New Orleans at the mouth of our great national canal,
the Mississippi,--will become nations rather than cities, out-stripping all the great cities
of ancient and modern history. As far as the resources of the West are concerned, one Pacific
railroad, with two or three branches, will not suffice; we may need a road along every parallel.
The West is still in a large degree terra incognita. We know it only in parts. We are indeed
aware that California is already competing with Russia and the cis-Mississippi States in the
production of cereals, and that the mineral region of the West now annually yields gold and
silver worth one hundred millions of dollars. But California's agricultural resources are almost
untouched; while the best "leads" of the vast mineral region are not worked, from the fear
of a savage race. Missouri extends over thirty-five millions of acres of arable land, two millions
of which are the alluvial margins of rivers, and twenty thousand high rolling prairie; but
five sevenths of the soil is yet fallow. We see Denver and other cities of the Far West spring
up in a day; but their growth, marvellous as it is, arises from the circumstance that they
are great mineral centres, and is cramped and partial, depending upon a wearisome and insecure
overland route, extending over hundreds of miles, via Salt Lake, to Atchison. The Pacific Railroad
will quicken this development to its full possibilities; it will populate the West in a few
years; and along its lines will spring up a hundred cities, which will advance in the swift
march of national progress just in proportion to their opportunities for rapid communication
with the older centres of opulence and culture.

The Indians also, whose sad plaint against the inevitable civilization of the locomotive is
still ringing in all ears, must succumb before the presence of this new power. When we reflect
that a single regiment of soldiers costs a million a year, we must see that the railroad as
a peace instrument will render more than an equivalent for all government assistance given
to it. Moreover, our frontier posts must soon be rendered unnecessary by the operation of commerce.
The same influence will also dissipate the power which the Mormons have gained solely by their
isolation.

But beyond these immediate considerations arise the magnificent commercial certainties which
the logic of history reveals. Space fails us at this point of fruitful speculation; but it
will suffice to say that the corollary of the Pacific railroads is the transfer of the world's
commerce to America, and the substitution of New York for Paris and London as the world's exchange.
In the train of these immeasurable events must come the wealth and the culture which have hitherto
been limited to Europe. With the year 1866 began the rapid work of this revolutionizing enterprise.
The year of grace 1870 will witness its completion. The four years' civil war is followed by
the four years' victory of peace. Already the Western cities are tremulous with the aspirations
which it excites; and the metropolis of the East, with its new steamship lines to Brazil, its
Cuban cable, and its hundred prospective enterprises, awaits the moment which shall lift it
to imperial importance.

FOOTNOTES:

[B] The use of this phrase requires explanation. It has been previously stated that Council
Bluffs was the point on which the Chicago lines were concentrating. It is now to be added,
that beyond this growing settlement, across the Missouri River, lies Nebraska, and the proposed
route would necessarily pass through the whole length of this State. At the rival roads are
connected to a greater or less degree with the interests of the States in which are their respective
eastern termini, and as the legal titles of the two roads are at once ambiguous and disagreeably
long, we have preferred to designate them simply as the Kansas and Nebraska lines.

[C] The point suggested for this divergence southward is in the vicinity of Pond Creek, four
hundred and twenty miles west of the Missouri River. Thence it will deflect to the southwest,
touching the base of the mountains one hundred and seventy miles beyond Pond Creek, near the
boundary-line between Colorado and New Mexico. Thus, having passed through Southeastern Colorado,
New Mexico, and Arizona, it finds its way northward, through the marvellously fertile region
of Southern California, to San Francisco. It is noteworthy that this project offers to Mexico
immediate participation in our commerce, affording the basis of a far more enduring annexation.
It is possible that in no far-distant future, if this scheme is achieved, San Francisco will
find a rival in San Diego,--four hundred and fifty-six miles southeast of the former, and a
much nearer port for the purposes of this route. The project of a mountain line from Denver
to Salt Lake City, connecting at that point with the Central Railroad, is also said to be entertained
by the Kansas company.

[D] Up to the present time, the Nebraska line has expended about twenty-five millions; the
Central Railroad, twenty-two millions. On two hundred and fifty-nine miles of the Kansas Road
there were also expended, in cost and equipment, eleven millions. All this has been obtained
from the sale of bonds, paid-in stock, and the net earnings of the roads. The bonds have been
made a popular loan, sold by New York agents, and chiefly taken in New England, New York State,
and Eastern Pennsylvania. The purchasing clasp, though largely composed of heavy capitalists,
consists also of those who have small sums of money to invest, and who seek this means as especially
secure.

The stockholders of the Union Pacific number from one to two hundred, but most of the shares
are in a few hands; the Credit Mobilier, Durant, and the Ameses being the principal owners.
The Central Railroad also exhibits the same phenomenon of few shareholders; all of them, of
course, large capitalists. This gives great power in pushing the work on, and illustrates the
tendency of the day toward consolidation. Hereafter, when the Central and Nebraska lines shall
have combined, this commanding influence of a comparatively few men will make itself signally
felt in our politics.

GRANDMOTHER'S STORY: THE GREAT SNOW.

It had been snowing all day, and when father came in at dark he said that the wind was rising,
and the storm gathering power every moment, and that before morning all the roads would be
fast locked.

Grandmother is a gentle, sweet old lady, whom I remember always with the same serene face,
bearing all earthly troubles with such holy patience as lifts this common life to heaven; she
waits for hours in unbroken silence, while her face wears the rapt, mystical look of one who
talks with angels, and then we move softly about her, and not one of us would by words of our
own call her down from the mount of vision. Within a year or two she has grown quite deaf,
and since this her life seems yet more isolated; sometimes, however, like most deaf persons,
she hears words spoken in low tones that are not meant for her, perhaps because at times the
spirit is vividly awake, and more than usually quick to catch at and interpret what else might
beat in vain upon the dull, corporeal sense.

She put by her knitting at father's words, and rose and walked feebly to the window, where
she stood a long time looking out at the death-white waste, shut in by the morose, ominous
sky. Then, turning slowly, her face alight and beautiful with that beauty which is fairer than
youth, she said, "It puts me in mind of the Great Snow, Ephraim,--it puts me in mind of a good
many things!"

Then she came back to the fire, and sat down again in her corner. Memory was stirring, the
Past unfolding its scroll. The knitting-work fell unheeded from the old, trembling fingers.
She was a girl again, and the story of that far-off girlhood fell softly upon the evening silence.

"I was only eighteen years old, Ephraim, when your grandfather moved down from the new State.
I had lived up there in the wilderness all my life; and I was as shy as a wild rabbit, and,
in my own fashion, proud. Father was poor in those days, for there were six of us children
to feed and clothe, and mother was delicate and often ill; so we moved into a low, one-story
house, that was old too, as well as small; but as we had always lived in a log-house, and this
was a frame one, we were more than satisfied. We did not mind if the snow blew in at the cracks
in the roof, and nestled in little drifts on the counterpane, for we were used to it. I remember
that one bright star always peeped down at me in the winter through the open spaces between
the boards, and shone so calm and clear that I used to fancy it was God's home, and somehow
my prayers seemed surer of getting to him when I said them in the pure light of this star.
But that was while we were in the new State. When we moved down country, I was a grown-up girl,
able to turn my hand to any chore about the house; and I went to meeting in the meeting-house
at the Corner, and had got over my childish notions.

"Elder Crane was a very pious man, and he always preached long sermons and made long prayers.
The sermons were easier to bear than the prayers, for the people sat through the sermon; but
if you had sat down during the prayer, you would have been thought dreadfully wicked, and the
Elder might have called your name right out the next Sabbath, and prayed for you as a poor
sinner whom Satan was tempting. And so you stood up, of course, though the children sometimes
got asleep and fell down, and often the girls used to faint away and be carried out. Semantha
Lee did, at one time, almost as regularly as the Sabbath came round, until at last a church
committee was sent to labor with her. But Semantha was a very free-spoken girl, and she said
some hard things against Elder Crane's prayers. I always thought that it was more her corsets
than the length of the prayers.

"I never fainted; for up in the new State I had run wild in the woods, and, though I was a
frail thing to look at, I had a deal of strength in me. But my thoughts rambled a great deal
too often; and sometimes I doubted if I was as near God in Elder Crane's church as I used to
be lying on my bed in the chamber of the log-house, and saying my prayers to the bright star
that looked down so friendly. I asked mother about it one day, and she said that surely God
was about us everywhere; but she added that the church was the appointed means of grace, and
that I must follow Elder Crane closely, and try to make my heart feel the words. I did try,
but there was so much about the Israelites in the house of bondage, and Moses, and the sacrifices,
that, do what I would, I always lost myself in the Red Sea, and the chosen people entered the
Promised Land without me. At such times, when my thoughts went wandering, my eyes followed
them, and most frequently they went right over to Mr. Jacob Allen's pew. I could not well help
it, indeed, for his was a wall pew, directly opposite ours. Mr. Allen seldom came to meeting,
being old and rheumatic, but his wife and girls came, and his son, Ephraim.

"At first I noticed Ephraim Allen just as I did the cobwebs upon the walls, and the yellow
streaks in the wainscoting; afterward I began to see what a fine figure he had,--a whole head
above his companions,--and how broad-shouldered and erect and manly he was; the narrow-backed,
short-waisted coat that made the rest look so pinched and uncomfortable sat gracefully and
easily upon him. He had a wide, white forehead,--though I did not notice this for a long time,--and
short curly hair, that looked very black beside the fair skin. Then his cheeks were as bright
as a rose, and his eyes--but I seldom got so far as his eyes, because by some chance they always
met mine, and then I was much confused and ashamed. But always, in going out of meeting, he
used to bow to me in passing, and say, 'Good morning, Mercy'; and then I saw that his eyes
were a clear, dark blue, and I thought they were very honest, tender ones. They said that Semantha
Lee had been setting her cap at him a good while, and I wondered if he liked her.

"This was all the acquaintance we had for two years and more. There was not much chance for
young people to meet in those days, especially where they were strictly brought up, as I was;
for father and mother were both very pious, and at that time church-members thought it was
sinful to join in the profane amusements of the world. So when an invitation came for me to
a husking-frolic, or a paring-bee, or a dance, I was not allowed to go. I was shy, as I told
you, but I had a girl's natural longing for company; and many were the bitter tears I shed
up in my garret because I could not go with the rest. Mother used to look at me as if she pitied
me, and once she ventured to speak up in favor of my going; but father said sternly that these
sports were the means Satan used to win away souls from God,--and father was a good deal set
in his way, and mother gave up to him, as she always did.

"Once or twice Ephraim Allen came to our house, but somehow my shyness came over me when I
heard his voice at the door, and I hid myself in the pantry, and pretended to be very busy
turning the cheeses; and so I was, for I turned them over and over again, till mother came
and said I mustn't waste any more butter. Ephraim stayed and stayed, and kept talking about
the oxbow he had come to see about a great deal longer than I thought there was any need of;
and I could not get courage enough to go out, though I was sore ashamed and vexed at my foolish
shyness.

"So the whole two years slipped away, and good morning was all we had ever said to each other.
About this time I began to notice that Deacon Lee got in the way of looking at me in meeting,
and his face was very sober, as if something displeased him. Semantha, too, would push past
me in going in and out, and didn't speak to me as she always used to do before she went down
to Boston to make that long visit among her relations. Deacon Lee had a brother living in Boston
who was said to be a very rich man. Father was at his house once when he went down to sell
the butter and wool,--as he did every winter,--and he said we could not imagine how beautiful
it was,--carpets on all the floors, and even in the entry, which mother thought must make a
deal of work with people coming in and out, especially in wet weather. But then father said
the Lees had negro servants to do the work, and that Mrs. Lee and her daughters had nothing
to do but sit in the parlor all day long. When Semantha came back after her long visit, she
brought a great many fine things that her cousins had given her. She used to come into meeting,
her high-heeled slippers clattering, and her clocked stockings showing clear down to the peaked
toe; she wore a pink crape gown, and over that a white muslin cape that came just down to the
waist in the back, and crossed over in front, and was pinned to her gown at the corners; it
was bound around with blue lutestring, and her bonnet had a blue bow on it. It was a Navarino
bonnet, and cost an extravagant price, seeing that it couldn't be done over.

"None of us had ever seen such fine things before; and when Semantha came in, Elder Crane might
as well have sat down, for everybody looked at Semantha. I thought it was well that her bonnet
hid her face; for if she was like me, it must have been crimson. I am sure I should have died
of mortification to have been so stared at.

"Mother said she feared it was sinful for a deacon's daughter to make such a display, and wondered
if Semantha remembered what the Apostle Paul says of the ornaments that women ought to wear.

"But in talking of Semantha, I have forgotten Deacon Lee's queer behavior. He would look at
me awhile, and then at Ephraim Allen. It was so curious, I began to fear that he was deranged.
But at last I found out what it meant.

"One day as I was coming out of meeting, and Ephraim had just said, 'Good morning,' I looked
around and there was Deacon Lee close beside us, watching us with a severe expression in his
face. 'Young man,' said he, and the tone was so awful that I trembled all over,--'young man,
I have noticed for some time past your attempts to attract the attention of this young woman,
who, I am grieved to say,'--turning to me,--'does not receive this notice as she ought. Instead
of assuming an expression of severe reproof, she blushes from time to time, and casts down
her eyes, and I cannot discover from her face that this ungodly conduct is displeasing to her.'

"I was so overwhelmed by this rebuke that I could not look up or speak, and in a minute more
I should have cried in good earnest It was Ephraim's voice that stopped me. 'I am sure I beg
Mercy's pardon and yours, Deacon, if I have done anything improper. I suppose I looked at her
because my eye couldn't find a pleasanter resting-place. You won't pretend that Elder Crane
is handsome enough to make it a pleasure to look at him.'

"I was astonished, and Deacon Lee looked horrified, but Ephraim's face glowed all over with smiles.

"'Ephraim Allen,' said the Deacon sternly, 'if you were a professor, I should present you to
the church for irreverence. As it is, I have done my duty';--and with that he went away.

"Most of the people had left the meeting-house by this time, but a good many of them were turning
back to look at me where I stood near Deacon Lee and Ephraim Allen. I suppose they didn't know
what it could mean; for in those days we always Walked soberly home from service, not profaning
the holy day by common talk. And this was the reason that I was surprised and frightened when
Ephraim, instead of going away by himself, walked down the steps with me, and along the road
at my side. It was a good two miles home, and I had happened to come alone that day, father
being laid up with a cut in his foot, and mother staying at home to nurse him.

"The path was a beautiful one, leading through deep, still woods, now coming out into the edge
of a clearing, and now running along a brookside where there were flowers nodding over the
water, and bird's-nests in the thick grass on the bank; I thought sometimes that the walk did
me as much good as going to church, particularly if I came alone, and stopped now and then
to read my Bible by the way.

"So we walked along, Ephraim and I; and presently we passed a great clump of witch-hazel bushes
that were in all their bridal white, and Ephraim picked a bunch of the flowers, and gave them
to me. He had not spoken a word since we started, but now he said, 'Are you very much put out
with Deacon Lee, Mercy?'

"This made me feel very much ashamed again, but I said I hoped I knew better than to bear anger
against anybody; and then--quite excited and eager--I said I wanted him to forgive me if I
had looked his way more than was proper, and not think I meant to be forward or unmaidenly.
And Ephraim made reply that he would never believe any ill of me, no, not if all the deacons
in the world were to testify to it; and he said that he owed Deacon Lee thanks for so bringing
us together, for he should never have had the courage to come to me, though he longed for a
sight of my face every day, and was constant at church, never missing a Sunday, so that he
might see me. All this he said in such an earnest, sincere manner, and his voice was so gentle
that I could not rebuke him, though I feared that his heart was in a dark, unregenerate state,
if he cared so much more for me than for Elder Crane's sermons.

"You won't care to have an old woman tell any more of her love-story. Now-a-days these things
are all written in novels, and I should think the bloom of a girl's delicacy must be long gone
before she hears such words said to herself. Then it was different. I had never dreamed of
anything so beautiful.

"The woods were very still all around us, only once in a while a bird would sing out, and then
the silence fall again all the sweeter for the song. When the woods opened we caught glimpses
of the green grain-fields and orchards in blossom. A chipmonk darted across the path, and,
scampering up into a beech-tree, clung to the great brown hole, and looked down at us, perking
his head so mischievously that I could not help thinking he knew our secret. And so on and
on. I've often thought that walk was like the life we lived together, and a prophecy of it,--bright,
and full of songs and flowers and sweetness, leading sometimes through shady places, but never
losing sight of God's sweet heaven, never missing the warm winds of its inspiration and its hope.

"But before this a dark time was to come.

"We must have been a good while going home, for when we came in sight of the house there was
mother standing in the door, shading her eyes with her hand, and watching for us, and all at
once I remembered that she must have been anxious; there were bears in those woods, and the
next winter one was killed in the very path where we walked.

"When mother saw us coming, she smiled, and came down to the road to meet us, and shook hands
with Ephraim in such a friendly way that my heart danced; I had been thinking what if father
and mother should not approve of him.

"Father was friendly too, and while they sat in the fore-room, and talked, mother made some
of her cream biscuits for tea. Now I knew by this that Ephraim would find favor in her eyes,
because in our house all unnecessary labor was forbidden on the Sabbath, and no small thing
could have tempted mother to break over this rule. When I went to call them to supper, I knew
that Ephraim had been speaking to father, and that he was kindly disposed towards Ephraim.
Father named me in asking the blessing, and Ephraim also, speaking of him so tenderly that
it brought the tears to my eyes.

"All the rest of that summer is very dear to remember. When I think over my life, much of it
seems misty and far away; but that summer is as distinct to my mind as it was when its roses
had but just faded, just as sweet and wonderful in its sunshine, its blue skies, its fresh-blowing
winds, its birds and flowers, as it seemed to me then,--only now I know what it was that so
glorified it.

"Ephraim had a much greater flow of spirits than I had. I was grave beyond my years. But I
caught the love of fun from him, and mother and father wondered at the change in me. I think
a girl always changes when she is engaged. A whole world of feeling that has slept is now awakened.
Even shallow women bloom out for a brief time, and sparkle and shine wonderfully. To be sure
they fade full soon oftentimes, and only the dry leaves are left of all the charm and fragrance.

"And so autumn came, and winter, and with the winter the frolics which Ephraim was so fond
of, and which he persisted stoutly were as innocent as church-going. But father was so disturbed
when I spoke of going that I gave it up at once, and told Ephraim that, as long as I lived
at home, I couldn't feel right to disobey father. So at first Ephraim stayed contentedly with
me, but by and by the old love stirred. A bit of dance-music would start his color, and set
his feet in motion, and it was plain to see where his heart was. I was sorely grieved at this;
nay, I was more than grieved. I wanted him all to myself. I could not bear that he should need
anything but me. Ephraim said I was exacting, and I thought him cold and unkind. And so there
gradually grew up a coldness between us; and yet the coldness was all on my side. Ephraim was
always gentle, even when I was pettish and cross. For so I was. It was partly physical. I was
not well that winter. I did not sleep, or when I did by fits and starts, I woke frightened
and crying. Now, my doctor would call it nervous sensitiveness; but then people did not give
fine names to their humors, and mother only looked sorry, and said she was afraid I was growing
ill-tempered.

"While things were in this state, Ephraim's mother invited me to come and spend a week with
them. I didn't feel acquainted, and I was shy about going; but Ephraim urged it, and mother
advised it, and so at last I consented to go.

"I was a good deal mortified that I had nothing nice to wear. My best gown had been in use
two winters, and there were only three breadths in the skirt, and Semantha Lee said that nobody
in Boston thought of making up less than four. But mother's wise counsel reconciled me. She
said that the Allens knew we had no money to spend on fine clothes, and would only expect me
to be clean and neat and well-behaved.

"Ephraim, too, praised me boldly to my face, and pretended to think that nothing could be so
becoming as my faded hood. It was yellow silk, and was made out of a turban that mother had
worn when she was a girl.

"After I was in the sleigh with Ephraim, all my unhappiness and anxiety fled, and I enjoyed
every bit of the ride. It was a lonely road, and part of the way it went through the woods
where the lately fallen snow lay in pure white sheets that were written all over with the tracks
of birds, and rabbits and other wild animals; and the stillness of the great woods was so deep
and solemn that our love-talk was silenced, and we rode on singing hymns. Then out of the woods,
and sweeping down into a hollow where pleasant farms were nestled snugly together, and so up
to Ephraim's door. Mr. Jacob Allen was a forehanded farmer, and the house was by far the best
in town.

"When we drove up to the door, Mary Allen was at the window, watching for us. She ran out to
the sleigh, and when Ephraim told her here was her sister Mercy, she laughed, and shook hands,--women
did not kiss each other then,--and said she was glad I was come to stay a week. So my meeting
her was not at all dreadful.

"While Ephraim went around to put up the horse, Mary took me into the fore-room, where there
was a fire, and helped me with my things, and was as sociable as if she had known me all her life.

"The room was a great deal nicer than anything I had ever seen. I was almost afraid to step
on the carpet at first; but then I remembered that it must have been meant to be stepped on,
or it wouldn't have been laid on the floor.

"Pretty soon Mrs. Allen and Prudence came in. Mrs. Allen was a very notable woman, and when
she had told me how she made her cheese, and that she put down her butter in cedar firkins,--she
seemed to think that pine ones were not fit for a Christian to use, and that my mother must
be a terribly shiftless person to put up with them,--she said she must go and see to the pies
that were baking. I don't think she was still five minutes at a time while I was there, but
just driving about the house from morning till night. And yet there were her two girls to help
her, and mother and I did the work for eight, and took in spinning all the year round.

"I think Prudence didn't like housework. She was very intimate with Semantha Lee; and what
Semantha said and did and wore was pretty much all her talk. All that week she was at work
on old gowns, altering them to be like Semantha's. Prudence didn't seem to fancy me at the
very first; and though I don't want to speak evil of her, she was certainly rather a hard person
to get along with.

"One day she would remark that I would be quite good-looking if my nose wasn't such a pug.
And another day that it was a pity I had red hair, for really my other features were not so
bad; and she said that my gown was just like one she had hung up in the garret; and so in this
way she picked me to pieces, until it seemed as if she couldn't find a good thing in me. But
this was not as bad as the way in which she talked to me about Semantha.

"Nobody was so handsome or so good or so smart as Semantha; and Deacon Lee was the most forehanded
man in town. As a great secret, she told me that Ephraim and Semantha were once as good as
engaged, and she didn't doubt, if anything should happen to break up the match between Ephraim
and me, that Ephraim would go back to Semantha.

"I was terribly angry at this, and I felt my lips stiffen, and it was as much as I could do
to say, 'What could happen to break our engagement? Ephraim is solemnly promised to me, and
it is just the same in God's sight as if we were married.'

"Prudence looked at me a minute, and then said she 'had no idea I had such a temper. She had
heard that I talked of uniting with the church, but after what she had seen, she shouldn't
think--' And here she stopped, and it was as much what was not said as what she did say that
vexed me so. I was heartily thankful that she was only a half-sister to Ephraim, for I began
to fear I should hate her.

"With all this Mary did not seem to dare to be her own pleasant self, and even Ephraim acted
as if he wasn't quite at his ease. I began to be sadly homesick. I almost hated the sight of
the carpet on the floor, and the high-curtained bedstead, and the tall chimney-glass, and I
longed for the love and peace of my humble home.

"I had been at Mrs. Allen's three days, when Semantha Lee came over to spend the day. She came
in the morning, and sent back the hired man with the sleigh, because she meant to stay all
night with Prudence.

"Semantha was dressed very elegantly. She had a scarlet cloth cloak that came down to the bottom
of her gown, and the gown itself was green silk, with great bishop sleeves lined with buckram,
so that they stood out, and rattled like a drum when they hit against anything. Mary laughed
at her because she could not go through our chamber door without turning sidewise; but Semantha
said they were all the fashion in Boston.

"She was very lively and full of fun that day, though she didn't take much notice of me. In
the evening we had popped corn and apples, and when we pared the apples and threw down the
long coils of peel, Semantha's took the shape of a letter E. She laughed and blushed, and pretended
to be very much vexed, but she was really as pleased as she could be. Mary whispered to me
not to mind, and said Prudence had given the peel a sly push with her foot to shape the E;
but for all that I could hardly help crying.

"That night all of us girls slept in the great double-bedded room. Semantha was with Prudence;
and long after Mary was asleep I could hear them whispering, and every minute or two I would
catch Ephraim's name.

"I did not sleep much that night, and in the morning I was almost sick. Ephraim was very kind,
and when Prudence said she was going to invite in some of the young people of the neighborhood
that evening, he wanted her to put it off; but Prudence said she guessed I would be better,--she
thought people could throw off sickness if they tried to do so. At this Semantha laughed so
disagreeably, and looked over at Ephraim in so significant a way, that I am afraid I almost
hated her.

"The company came in the evening,--five or six merry young girls and young men. If my head
and heart had been right, I could have enjoyed it too. But my head ached, and for the rest
you would have thought it was Semantha who was engaged to Ephraim, and not I.

"There was a young man there named Elihu Parsons. He was very handsome,--too handsome for a
man,--and what with this and his pleasant ways he was a great favorite with the girls. I had
only seen him once or twice, but he remembered me, and came and sat by me while the games were
going on. I thought this was very good of him, for nobody was so much called for as he; but
he would not leave me, and was so sociable and pleasant that I tried to brighten up and entertain
him as well as I could. We were in the midst of our talk, when I happened to glance up and
saw Ephraim looking over at us,--looking, too, as I had never seen him. All at once it flashed
upon me that I could make him suffer as he had made me. From that moment an evil spirit possessed
me. I felt my cheeks flush; my heart beat fast; I was full of wild gayety. I sang songs when
they asked me. Elihu asked me to dance, and I danced,--I, who had never taken a step before
in my life. I felt as light as air; I seemed to float through the figure.

"Ephraim never came near me the whole evening, but Elihu kept close to me, and we had a great
deal of talk that I am glad to have forgotten. But I remember that he laughed at Semantha Lee,
and made fun of her hair that he said was like tow, and her eyes that squinted, and her mincing
gait; and I listened, and felt a malicious pleasure in this dispraise of Semantha. Through
it all my head ached terribly, and I stupidly wondered how I dared be such a wicked girl, and
what my mother would say if she knew it.

"By and by it was ten o'clock, and then Semantha suddenly discovered that she must go home.
Mrs. Allen tried to persuade her to stay. But no! It was going to snow, she said, and she would
not stay. Then Prudence said, if she must go, Ephraim would take her home in the sleigh, which,
of course, was just what Semantha wanted.

"I don't know what made me do it, but upon this I rose and went over to where they were standing,
and said that Elihu Parsons was going directly past Deacon Lee's, and would be happy to take
Semantha, and that I would rather Ephraim should not go.

"Prudence lifted up both hands, as if she was too horrified to speak, and looked at Semantha.
Semantha giggled. She was one of those girls who are always laughing foolishly.

"As for Ephraim, his face was dark, and his voice was cold and hard, as he said, 'From what
we have seen tonight, Mercy, I don't think it can make much difference to you what I do'; and
then, without another word, went out.

"Presently I heard the sleigh-bells, and in a moment Ephraim came in at the front door. I hurried
out to him. I would make one more effort, I thought.

"He stopped on seeing me.

"'Are you going to leave me for Semantha? You are very unkind to me!' I said passionately.

"'You are foolish, Mercy. Semantha is our guest, and I have shown her no more attention than
she has a right to.'

"'Can't you see, Ephraim?' I cried. 'Don't you know that she came here on purpose to make trouble
between you and me, and that Prudence is helping her?'

"He looked surprised, then wholly incredulous. 'You are mistaken, Mercy. You are prejudiced
against Semantha.'

"I grew angry. I did not know that many men, acute enough to all else, are stone-blind where
the wiles of a woman are concerned. 'You may go then, if you like. I see you don't care for
me,' I said bitterly.

"'You know I do care for you,' said Ephraim. His voice was softer. I might have won him then,
if I would have stooped to persuade. But I would not. My pride was hurt. I turned away from him.

"Presently Semantha came out and they drove off.

"Pretty soon Elihu Parsons brought his sleigh round, flung down the reins, and came in to say
good night. He held my hand and lingered, talking, when I was eager for his going. My gayety
had fled, and every word cost me a pang. At last he said, 'I am going by your house. Can I
carry any message for you?'

"A wild thought darted into my mind, 'Going by our house? O, if I might go too!'

"'You can!' he said eagerly. 'I will take you with the greatest pleasure.'

"In an instant I had resolved to go. It seemed to me that I should die if I stayed under that
roof another night. So I begged him to wait a minute, ran up stairs, packed my things; and
came down and told the family that I was going home. They seemed thunderstruck. Only Prudence
spoke.

"'Very well,' said she. 'But I suppose you know it is all over between you and Ephraim if you
go off in this way.'

"I told her that I knew it was all over, thanks to her, and I hoped it was a pleasure to her
to reflect that she had separated two persons who would never have had a hard thought of each
other but for her. Mary came out into the entry to me crying, and said she hoped we should
make it up. But I told her that was not likely. And so we drove away.

