THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL 13, No. 355., SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1829. [PRICE 2d.]

VILLAS IN THE REGENT'S PARK.

The definition of the word villa is a country seat; but the reader will ask, how can a country
seat be in the midst of a metropolis, or in its brick and mortar confines? The term, however,
admits of various modifications. The villas of the Romans resembled large city palaces removed
into the country, and some of them were four times larger than Versailles with its three thousand
apartments. The villas of modern Rome likewise more resemble palaces than abodes of domestic
convenience; and one of them, the Villa Mondrogone, has more windows than there are days in
the year. Such are the Italian villas, of which the name conveys as accurate an idea as the
English reader acquires from the French chateau, which, in reality, implies a comfortless factory-looking
abode, with a blaze of fresco embellishments.

The first engraving in the annexed page is the villa, or, we should rather say, the suburban
retreat, of the Marquess of Hertford, designed by Mr. Decimus Burton. The noble owner, who
has enjoyed the peculiar advantages of travel, and is a man of vertu and fine taste, has selected
a design of beautiful simplicity and chastity of style. The entrance-hall is protected by a
hexastyle (six column) portico of that singular Athenian order, which embellishes the door
of the Tower of the Winds. The roof is Venetian, with projecting eaves; and the wings are surmounted
by spacious glass lanterns, which light the upper rooms. The buildings and offices are on a
larger scale than any other in the park, and correspond in style with the opulence of the noble
owner. The offices are spread out, like the villas of the ancients, upon the ground-floor.
Adjoining the front of the villa is a tent-like canopy, surmounting a spacious apartment, set
aside, we believe, for splendid dejeuné entertainments in the summer. This roof may be seen
from several parts of the park. The entrance lodge is particularly chaste, the gates are in
handsome park-like style; and the plantations and ornamental gardens in equally good taste.
The establishment is, as we have said, the most extensive in the Regent's Park, and is in every
respect in correspondent taste with the beautiful Italian fronted town residence of the noble
marquess, opposite the Green Park, in Piccadilly; and its luxurious comforts well alternate
with the fashionable hospitalities of Sudborne Hall, the veritable country seat of this distinguished
nobleman.

The second engraving is another specimen of the Regent's Park villa style. The order is handsome
Doric; but much cannot be said in praise of its adaptation to a suburban residence. It nevertheless
adds the charm of variety to the buildings that stud and encircle the park, and intermingle
with lawns and bowery walks with more prettiness than rural character.

       *       *       *       *       *

DESTRUCTION OF THE INTERIOR OF YORK MINSTER.[1]

On Monday morning last, this magnificent structure was discovered to be on fire. Soon after
the alarm was given, the bells of twenty-three churches announced the dismal tidings; but for
some time the people looked upon the report as a hoax, and it was not until after the lapse
of an hour that the city was fairly roused to a sense of the impending calamity.

On the Sunday evening previous, there was service in the Minster, as usual, and all appeared
to be left safe. A light was, however, observed in the building, by a man passing through the
Minster-yard, about four o'clock on Monday morning; but he supposed some workmen were employed
there, and passed on without inquiry. Between six and seven o'clock, the discovery was made
in an extraordinary manner. One of the choristers passing through the Minster-yard, accidentally
stepping on a piece of ice, was thrown on his back, in which position he saw a quantity of
smoke issuing from the roof.

In a letter dated York, February 2nd, the writer thus hastily describes the extent of the conflagration:--

The first appearance I observed was the issue of an immense volume of smoke from the junction
of the western towers with the nave, a smaller column from the great tower, and a third column
from the roof of the choir, thus presenting the appearance of the building being on fire in
all parts, whilst a dense smoke filled the interior to such a degree as to preclude the immediate
entrance of the firemen. At length, the engines were rolled into the august edifice, when a
scene beyond all description presented itself; the interior of the choir enveloped in flames,
reflected upon the beautiful stained glass. The flames soon burst through the roof of the choir,
and in less than an hour the whole was in a blaze, and the melted lead poured down the spouting.
The roof soon fell in, in about five or six dreadful crashes. Every effort was made to prevent
the flames spreading to the transept and nave, and I trust with success, for though the engines
are now (midnight) still playing, I do not find that there is any other fire than the remains
of the roof on the floor of the choir.

[Footnote 1: No. 162, vol. vi., of the MIRROR, contains a fine view of the Minster. The first
religious foundation here by the Christians was about the year 672. The Minster was burnt down
in 1137, and lay in ruins till the year 1171. The late cathedral was completed about the year
1370. Appended to our engraving is an accurate historical and architectural description of
the whole fabric.]

The damage may be summed up thus: The roof of the choir quite gone, the wood work on each side
consumed, the matchless organ entirely destroyed, many monuments broken, and the communion
plate melted. On the other hand, the east window is entire to the surprise of every one, the
screen is uninjured, although immediately below the organ, the records in the vestry, the horn
of Ulphus,[2] the coronation chair, and the brass eagle are saved, and the wills in the Prerogative
office are all safely lodged in Belfrey's Church. For some time the city was in considerable
danger; flakes of fire were carried as far as the Lord Mayor's Walk; providentially there was
very little wind.

[Footnote 2: The horn of Ulphus is one of the greatest curiosities in possession of the church
of York. It appears like the hollowed tusk of an elephant, and the length of its curvature
is from 18 to 24 inches. It is the title deed by which the church of St. Peters holds lands
to a considerable value, given to it before the Heptarchy by Ulphus, king of Deira and Northumbria.
It is said, that when he presented it to the church, he filled it with wine, which he drank
off to its future success. If the story be true, Ulphus must have been one of the most strong-headed,
as well as one of the must pious kings of his day; for the draught which he is alleged to have
swallowed would be sufficient to upset the sobriety of any two men, such as men now are. The
horn was preserved by the successive possessors of St. Peter's with the most careful affection
during all the commotions of the Danish and Norman invasions; but was stolen from them in the
general confusion which pervaded the city of York after the battle of Marston-moor and it was
delivered up to the Parliamentarian forces under the command of Lord Fairfax and Cromwell.
By some of the accidents of war, it came into the possession of Lord Fairfax, who is reported
to have purchased it of a common soldier. On the restoration of Charles II., when church-properly
was again secure, his lordship restored it to the cathedral; and there is now an inscription
upon it, recording the gratitude of the Dean and Chapter for having so valuable a possession
restored them. It has now escaped singularly enough from the destruction which has fallen upon
the other curiosities which were usually kept in the vestry-room; and remains, as it has done
for years past, to be sounded by all those strong-winded visiters of the Minster who have strength
enough to blow it.]

From another account we learn that communication with the roof was not at first apprehended,
but the roof of the choir being very dry wood, soon joined in the conflagration. It is impossible
to describe the awful picture of the flames rising above this majestic building. The effect
produced by the glare of light upon the stained glass of the windows exceeds description. On
the falling of the roof, the house of prayer, which but the evening before had resounded with
the voices of worshippers, and where all was order and harmony, now resembled a fiery furnace.
The pillars, which once served to divide the choir from the two side aisles, now stood alone,
the whole being an open space, with the roof burning on the ground, and nothing above but the
blue canopy of heaven.

Mr. Britton, in his valuable work on York Cathedral, gives a minute description of that part
of the Minster which has been destroyed; from which the following is extracted:--

"After passing through the screen, the visiter is introduced to the choir, which is grand in
scale and rich in adornment. On each side is a series of 20 stalls, with 12 at the west end,
beneath the organ. These are of oak, and are peculiarly rich in their canopies and carved decorations.
Each seat, or stall, has its movable miserecordia, with projecting rests for the elbows, from
which rise two detached slender columns, supporting an elaborate canopy. At the eastern end
of the choir is the altar-table, raised above the regular floor by a series of 15 steps.

"On the north side of the altar, over the grated window that lights the crypt, is an ancient
pew, or gallery, to which there is an ascent by a flight of narrow stairs, of solid blocks
of oak. The exterior of this gallery is very neat, and it is certainly older than the Reformation.

"Behind the stalls of the choir are closets, some of which are used as vestries by the singing-men:
modern staircases have been constructed, leading to the galleries erected above, and which
disfigure the view into the aisles. These closets are fronted, next the aisles, by open screens
of oak, some of which are of excellent carving, and more elaborate than others. In the centre
of the choir stands a desk for the vicars-choral to chant the litany in; it is enclosed in
a pew of carved wood."

The Minster was lighted with gas, to which the conflagration was at first attributed; but the
fire appears to have originated in one of the vestries. When we remember the beauty of the
carved work which has thus been destroyed, and the elaborate skill which had been bestowed
on its execution, our sympathies are deeply awakened for its fate. Indeed, the most listless
admirer of art, as well as the antiquarian devotee, has just cause to lament this accident;
especially as the taste and labours of our times fall far short of the olden glories of architecture.
When we think of the "unsubstantial pageant" of the recent "Festival," and associate its fleeting
show with the desert remains of this venerable pile, our feelings deepen into melancholy, and
the smoking fragments of art seem to breathe--

    Tell thou the lamentable fall of me,
    And send the hearers weeping to their beds.

       *       *       *       *       *

HARD FROSTS IN ENGLAND.

(For the Mirror.)

In the year
220.  Frost lasted 5 months.
250.  The Thames frozen 9 weeks.
291.  Most rivers frozen 6 weeks.
508.  The rivers frozen 2 months.
695.  The Thames frozen 6 weeks; booths built on it.
759.  Frost from October the 1st, till February 26th, 760.
827.  Frost for 9 weeks.
923.  The Thames frozen 13 weeks.
987.  Frost lasted 120 days.
998.  The Thames frozen 5 weeks.
1035. Frost on Midsummer Day so vehement that the
      corn and fruits were destroyed.
1063. The Thames frozen for 14 weeks.
1076. Frost from November to April.
1114. Several wooden bridges carried away by the ice.
1407. Frost for 15 weeks.
1434. Thames frozen down to Gravesend; 12 weeks frost.
1683. Frost for 13 weeks.
1739. Frost for 9 weeks.
1788. Frost from November to January
1789, when the Thames was crossed opposite the Customhouse,
      the Tower, Execution Dock, Putney, Brentford, &c. It
      was general throughout Europe.
1796. Frost the most severe on Dec. 25th
      that had ever been felt in the
      memory of man.
1814. Severe frost, Thames frozen, and
      tremendous falls of snow.

A French writer who visited England during the severe frost in the year 1688, says, (in a small
volume which he published in Paris,) "that besides hackney-coaches, a large sledge, or sledges,
were then exhibited on the frozen Thames, and that King Charles passed a whole night upon the ice."

The following extract is also an account of this frost by an eye-witness; which may be seen
in the Beauties of England and Wales, vol. x. page 83: he says, "On the 20th of December, 1688,
a very violent frost began, which lasted to the 6th of February, in so great extremity, that
the pools were frozen 18 inches thick at least, and the Thames was so frozen that a great street
from the Temple to Southwark was built with shops, and all manner of things sold. Hackney coaches
plied there as in the streets. There were also bull-baiting, and a great many shows and tricks
to be seen. This day the frost broke up. In the morning I saw a coach and six horses driven
from Whitehall almost to the bridge (London Bridge) yet by three o'clock that day, February
the 6th, next to Southwark the ice was gone, so as boats did row to and fro, and the next day
all the frost was gone. On Candlemas Day I went to Croydon market, and led my horse over the
ice to the Horseferry from Westminster to Lambeth; as I came back I led him from Lambeth upon
the middle of the Thames to Whitefriars' stairs, and so led him up by them. And this day an
ox was roasted whole, over against Whitehall. King Charles and the Queen ate part of it."

N.B. In 1740, a palace of ice was built by the Empress Anne of Russia, on the banks of the
Neva, 52 feet long, which, when illuminated, had a surprising effect.

P. T. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

TURKISH PROPHECY.

(For the Mirror.)

The following is extracted from a book of Prophecies, called Muhamedys, which is held in veneration
by the Turks:--"The Turkish emperor shall conquer Rome, and make the pope patriarch of Jerusalem;
and he shall, some time after, profess the Mahomedan faith. Christ shall then come, and show
the Christians their error in not having accepted the Alcoran; and instruct them that the dove
which came down from heaven was not the Holy Ghost, but was Mahomet, who shall be again upon
earth thirty years, and confirm the Alcoran by new miracles. After that time the power of the
Turks shall decline, till they retire into Desert Arabia, and then there shall be an end of
the world. Their overthrow shall be accomplished by a people from the north, called caumico
fer, (yellow-haired sons.) The ruin of Constantinople shall happen in sultan Mahomet's time;
and then the Turks shall be reduced to so few in number, that sixty Turkish women shall have
but one husband among them." W. G. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR SUPERSTITIONS, &c.

(Concluded from page 58.)

We have formerly alluded to the well-known feats of the weird sisterhood on the broomstick;
but it is affirmed that on these occasions the spirit left its earthly abode, the body being
previously anointed with the ointment we have described. We cannot better illustrate this question
(the possibility of which has been the subject-matter of many grave dissertations amongst the
literati of those times) than by giving the substance of the following singular "Confession,"
which with many others equally interesting, was made in 1664, (the later days of the profession)
before Robert Hunt, Esq., a "justice with fat capon lined," in the county of Somerset, and
in the presence of "several grave and orthodox divines."

Elizabeth Styles, of Stoke Triston, in that county, was accused by "divers persons of credit,"
of the crimes of witchcraft and sorcery. She was afterwards found guilty by a jury at Taunton,
but died before the sentence could be carried into effect. When she desired to do harm, she
called Robin; on his appearance she opened her wants, saying, O Satan, give me my purpose.

That a short time before, she and other witches had met a "gentleman in black" in a field,
about nine o'clock at night, to devise torments for one Elizabeth Hill, who had come under
their ban; they brought a waxen image of her, and the "man in black" took and anointed it,
saying, I baptize thee with this oyl; and using other words. "He was godfather, and the examinant
and Ann Bishop were godmothers." They called it Elizabeth; and the black man and weird sisters
stuck thorns into various parts of the luckless image. "After which, they had wine, cakes,
and roast meat, (provided by the gentleman in black,) which they did eat and drink; and they
danced and were very merry," &c. Many of these unhallowed meetings took place afterwards, and
their entertainer, the gentleman in black--man or devil--seems to have been a regular gourmand,
"and never failed to bring with him abundance of excellent cheer." The customary bill of fare
was "wine, good ale, cakes, meat, or the like." The spirit was, also, rather musical, for he
"sometimes played sweetly on the pipe or cittern," the ladies keeping time with a dance, (we
fear narrowly approaching the modern waltz.) On the whole they seem to have had joyous doings
of it, and wonder ceases that the demon gained so many proselytes amongst the old women. These
nocturnal meetings were generally held for a similar purpose with the foregoing; and it appears
from the confession before us, that they were conveyed to them by supernatural means--by that
simplest, though despised engine of loco--(or to coin a a word) aëro-motion--a broomstick.
They were obliged to anoint themselves on these occasions "with an oyl the spirit brought them;"
and they were soon transported to the place of appointment, using these words in their transit,
"Thout, tout, a tout tout, throughout and about!" and on their return they say "Rentum, tormentum!"
Such is the information conveyed in the confession of Elizabeth Styles, before these "grave
and orthodox divines!"

They were also gifted by the "gentleman in black" with various other wonderful powers and attributes.
They could transform themselves into the likeness of any animal in the creation, and therefore
the better execute their schemes of devilry; but, it appears, that they always wanted that
essential part--the tail; and there was a trial gravely reported by a Lancashire jury, that
a soldier having been set to watch a mill from the depredations of some cats, skilfully whipped
off the leg of the largest, which lo! the next morning, was changed into the arm of an old
witch (who had long been suspected) in the neighbourhood! This useful faculty of transformation
also extended, in some measure, to the persons of others; for Dr. Bulwer gives the following
easy recipe for "setting a horse or ass' head" on a man's neck and shoulders:[3]--"Cut off
the head of a horse or an ass (before they be dead, otherwise the virtue or strength thereof
will be less effectual,) and take an earthen vessel of a fit capacity to contain the same.
Let it be filled with the oyl or fat thereof; cover it close, and daub it over with loam. Let
it boil over a soft fire for three dayes, that the flesh boiled may run into oyl, so as the
bones may be seen. Beat the hair into powder, and mingle the same with the oyl, and anoint
the heads of the standers by, and they shall seem to have horses or asses' heads! If beasts'
heads be anointed with the like oyl made of a man's head, (we suppose cut off while the said
man was 'alive!') they shall seem to have men's faces, as divers authors soberly affirm!"

[Footnote 3: Shakspeare must have derived from this hint, the similar transformation in "The
Midsummer Night's Dream."]

After dwelling on the dark and malignant qualities of witches, it is but justice to give a
few of the charms which, for a small remuneration, they would bestow for the benefit of those
who sought their assistance in the hour of trouble. These charms were possessed of various
degrees of virtue, ex. gratiae.

Against the toothache.--Scarify the gums, in the grief, with the tooth of one that hath been
slain. Otherwise, galbes, gabat, galdes, galdat. Otherwise say, "O horsecombs and sickles that
have so many teeth, come heal me of my toothache!"

These very simple remedies, if popular, would soon send the concocters of nostrums for the
teeth into the Gazette.

To release a woman in travail.--Throw over the top of the house where the woman lieth in travail,
a stone, or any other thing that hath killed three living creatures: namely, a man, a wild
boar, and a she-bear.

Against the headache.--Tie a halter round your head wherewith one hath been hanged.

Against the bite of a mad dog.--Put a silver ring on the ringer, within which the following
words are engraven: hobay, habas, heber; and say to the person bitten by a mad dog, "I am thy
saviour, lose not thy life;" and then prick him in the nose thrice, that at each time he bleed.
Otherwise take pills made of the skull of one that is hanged, &c.

To find her that bewitched your kine.--Put a pair of breeches upon the cow's head, and beat
her out of the pasture with a good cudgel, upon a Friday, and she will run right to the witch's
door, and strike thereat with her horns.

We are exceeding our limits, else we should have added several other pithy receipts, almost
worthy of her who made the noted one against the creaking of a door--"rub a bit of soft soap
on the hinges." The most celebrated and precious charm, however, (for the above are mostly
against every-day occurrences) was the Agnus Dei, which was a "preservative against all manner
of evil, a perfect catholicon; and blessed indeed was the individual who possessed a treasure
so valuable." It was "a little cake, having the picture of a lamb carrying a flag, on the one
side, and Christ's head on the other side, and was hollow; so that the Gospel of St. John,
written on fine paper, was placed in the concavity thereof;" and was a sovereign remedy against
lightning, the effects of heat, drowning, &c. &c. In some of the above charms there is a little
humour to be found; and as we have previously observed, such are the effects of faith, that
like the amulets of the east (may not our own sprigs of witch-elm, &c. be so called?) they
may have had in many cases the desired effects in averting disease.

Reginald Scot furnishes us with directions "how to prevent and cure all mischief wrought by
charms or witchcraft." To prevent the entry of a witch into a house, nail a horse-shoe in the
inside of the outermost threshold. We believe this rule is still in practice. Also it was a
custom in some countries to nail a wolf's head, or a root of garlic, over the door, or on the
roof of a house. And our Saviour's name, &c. with four crosses at the four corners of a house,
was a protection. The Romish custom of driving out evil spirits by the smoke of sulphur, is
well known. "Otherwise the perfume made of the gall of a black dog, and his bloode besmeared
on the posts and walls of a house, driveth out of the doores, both devils and witches." A sprig
of witch-elm sewn in the collar of the doublet, was celebrated amongst our great grandmothers
as a specific against the malignant deeds of the weird sisterhood.

But we must draw this article to a close. We may well rejoice that we live in the nineteenth
century; and that the disgusting infatuation and baleful doctrines of witchcraft are gone for ever.

VYVYAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS

       *       *       *       *       *

DESCRIPTION OF THE KING'S PALACE,

By Mr. Nash, the Architect.

The grand entrance in front, which is to be reserved for the especial use of his Majesty and
the Royal Family, will be composed of white marble, and will be a faithful model of the arch
of Constantine, at Rome, with the exception of the equestrian figure of his Majesty George
IV. on the top. The workmanship of this arch is expected to rival any thing of the sort in
the kingdom, and to equal the finest works of antiquity. From each side of the arch a semicircular
railing will extend to the wings, executed in the most beautiful style, in cast-iron, and surmounted
by tips or ornamental spears of mosaic gold. The area, within, will consist of a grass-plat,
in the centre of which will be an ornamental fountain, and the whole will be bounded by a graveled
road.

The wing on the left will comprise his Majesty's chapel, the kitchen, and other offices; and
that on the tight, his Majesty's private suite of apartments. The entrance to the former is
from the back, near to where Buckingham-gate formerly stood, and it is by this door that the
visiters to the palace on gala days will be admitted. Passing through the building, they will
enter a spacious colonnade, which extends along the front of the body of the palace, and in
front of each wing; above the colonnade is a magnificent balcony, supported by columns of the
Doric order. At the end of each wing is a pediment, supported by Corinthian columns. The entablature
of each pediment is tastefully filled up with groups of figures in white marble, exquisitely
carved in alto relievo, illustrative of the arts and sciences. On the extreme points of the
wing on the left, are fixed statues representing History, Geography, and Astronomy; and on
those of the right wing, Painting, Music, and Architecture. On the entablature of the pediment,
in front of the main body of the palace, it is intended to place the Arms of England; and on
the top are placed Neptune, with Commerce on one side, and Navigation on the other. Around
the entire building, and above the windows, is a delicately worked frieze, combining in a scroll
the Rose, the Shamrock, and the Thistle.

The entrance-hall is about thirty-three feet in height. The pavement is of white marble slightly
veined with blue. The entire hall is bordered with a scroll of Sienna or yellow, centred with
rosettes of puce-coloured marble, inlaid in the most masterly style of workmanship. The walls
are of Scagliola, and the ceiling is supported by a succession of white marble pillars. From
the hall are the avenues leading to the state apartments--drawing-rooms, dining-rooms, throne-room,
statue-gallery, picture-gallery, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

WINDSOR AS IT WAS.

The last Number of the London Magazine contains an article of considerable graphic interest,
under the above title. It is written by one "born within a stone's throw of the castle," and,
ni fallor, by the author of the picturesque description of Virginia Water, in the Magazine
for September, last. As the whole article is much too long for our space, we have abridged
it, taking care to retain the most characteristic portion of the writer's very pleasing reminiscences:--

My earliest recollections of Windsor are exceedingly delightful. I was born within a stone's
throw of the Castle-gates; and my whole boyhood was passed in the most unrestrained enjoyment
of the venerable and beautiful objects by which I was surrounded, as if they had been my own
peculiar and proper inheritance. The king and his family lived in a plain, barrack-looking
lodge at his castle foot, which, in its external appearance and its interior arrangements,
exactly corresponded with the humble taste and the quiet, domestic habits of George III. The
whole range of the castle, its terrace, and its park, were places dedicated to the especial
pleasures of a school-boy.

The Park! what a glory was that for cricket and kite-flying. No one molested us. The beautiful
plain immediately under the eastern terrace was called the Bowling Green;--and, truly, it was
as level as the smoothest of those appendages to suburban inns. We took excellent care that
the grass should not grow too fast beneath our feet. No one molested us. The king, indeed,
would sometimes stand alone for half an hour to see the boys at cricket; and heartily would
he laugh when the wicket of some confident urchin went down at the first ball. But we did not
heed his majesty. He was a quiet, good-humoured gentleman, in a long blue coat, whose face
was as familiar to us as that of our writing-master; and many a time had that gracious gentleman
bidden us good morning, when we were hunting for mushrooms in the early dew, and had crossed
his path as he was returning from his dairy, to his eight o'clock breakfast. Every one knew
that most respectable and amiable of country squires, called His Majesty; and truly there was
no inequality in the matter, for his majesty knew every one.

I have now no recollection of having, when a child, seen the king with any of the appendages
of royalty, except when he went to town, once a week, to hold a levee; and then ten dragoons
rode before, and ten after his carriage, and the tradesmen in the streets through which he
passed duly stood at their doors, to make the most profound reverences, as in duty bound, when
their monarch looked "every inch a king." But the bows were less profound, and the wonderment
none at all, when twice a week, as was his wont during the summer months, his majesty, with
all his family, and a considerable bevy of ancient maids of honour and half-pay generals, walked
through the town, or rode at a slow pace in an open carriage, to the Windsor theatre, which
was then in the High-street. Reader, it is impossible that you can form an idea of the smallness
of that theatre; unless you have by chance lived in a country town, when the assembly-room
of the head inn has been fitted up with the aid of brown paper and ochre, for the exhibition
of some heroes of the sock and buskin, vulgarly called strollers. At the old Windsor Theatre,
her majesty's apothecary in the lower boxes might have almost felt her pulse across the pit.
My knowledge of the drama commenced at the early age of seven years, amidst this royal fellowship
in fun; and most loyally did I laugh when his majesty, leaning back in his capacious arm-chair
in the stage-box, shook the house with his genuine peals of hearty merriment. Well do I remember
the whole course of these royal play-goings. The theatre was of an inconvenient form, with
very sharp angles at the junctions of the centre with the sides. The stage-box, and the whole
of the left or O.P. side of the lower tier, were appropriated to royalty. The house would fill
at about half-past six. At seven, precisely, Mr. Thornton, the manager, made his entrance backwards,
through a little door, into the stage-box, with a plated candlestick in each hand, bowing with
all the grace that his gout would permit. The six fiddles struck up God save the King; the
audience rose; the king nodded round and took his seat next the stage; the queen curtsied,
and took her arm-chair also. The satin bills of their majesties and the princesses were then
duly displayed--and the dingy green curtain drew up. The performances were invariably either
a comedy and farce, or more frequently three farces, with a plentiful interlarding of comic
songs. Quick, Suett, and Mrs. Mattocks were the reigning favourites; and, about 1800, Elliston
and Fawcett became occasional stars. But Quick and Suett were the king's especial delight.
When Lovegold, in the "Miser," drawled out "a pin a day's a groat a year," the laugh of the
royal circle was somewhat loud; but when Dicky Gossip exhibited in his vocation, and accompanied
the burden of his song, "Dicky Gossip, Dicky Gossip is the man," with the blasts of his powder-puff,
the cachinnation was loud and long, and the gods prolonged the chorus of laughter, till the
echo died away in the royal box. At the end of the third act, coffee was handed round to the
court circle; and precisely at eleven the performances finished,--and the flambeaux gleamed
through the dimly-lighted streets of Windsor, as the happy family returned to their tranquil home.

There was occasionally a good deal of merriment going forward at Windsor in these olden days.
I have a dim recollection of having danced in the little garden which was once the moat of
the Round Tower, and which Washington Irving has been pleased to imagine existed in the time
of James I. of Scotland. I have a perfect remembrance of a fête at Frogmore, about the beginning
of the present century, where there was a Dutch fair,--and haymaking very agreeably performed
in white kid gloves by the belles of the town,--and the buck-basket scene of the "Merry Wives
of Windsor" represented by Fawcett and Mrs. Mattocks, and I think Mrs. Gibbs, under the colonnade
of the house in the open day--and variegated lamps--and transparencies--and tea served out
in tents, with a magnificent scramble for the bread and butter. There was great good humour
and freedom on all these occasions; and if the grass was damp and the young ladies caught cold,
and the sandwiches were scarce, and the gentlemen went home hungry--I am sure these little
drawbacks were not to be imputed to the royal entertainers, who delighted to see their neighbours
and dependants happy and joyous.

A few years passed over my head, and the scene was somewhat changed. The king and his family
migrated from their little lodge into the old and spacious castle. This was about 1804. The
lath and plaster of Sir William Chambers was abandoned to the equerries and chance visiters
of the court; and the low rooms and dark passages that had scarcely been tenanted since the
days of Anne, were made tolerably habitable by the aid of diligent upholstery. Upon the whole,
the change was not one which conduced to comfort; and I have heard that the princesses wept
when they quitted their snug boudoirs in the Queen's Lodge. Windsor Castle, as it was, was
a sad patchwork affair.

The late king and his family had lived at Windsor nearly thirty years, before it occurred to
him to inhabit his own castle. The period at which he took possession was one of extraordinary
excitement. It was the period of the threatened invasion of England by Napoleon, when, as was
the case with France, upon the manifesto of the Duke of Brunswick, "the land bristled."

The doings at Windsor were certainly more than commonly interesting at that period; and I was
just of an age to understand something of their meaning, and partake the excitement. Sunday
was especially a glorious day; and the description of one Sunday will furnish an adequate picture
of these of two or three years.

At nine o'clock the sound of martial music was heard in the streets. The Blues and the Stafford
Militia then did duty at Windsor; and though the one had seen no service since Minden, and
most undeservedly bore the stigma of a past generation; and the other was composed of men who
had never faced any danger but the ignition of a coal-pit;--they were each a remarkably fine
body of soldiers, and the king did well to countenance them. Of the former regiment George
III. had a troop of his own, and he delighted to wear the regimentals of a captain of the Blues;
and well did his burly form become the cocked hat and heavy jack-boots which were the fashion
of that fine corps in 1805. At nine o'clock, as I have said, of a Sunday morning, the noise
of trumpet and of drum was heard in the streets of Windsor; for the regiments paraded in the
castle quadrangle. The troops occupied the whole square. At about ten the king appeared with
his family. He passed round the lines, while the salute was performed; and many a rapid word
of inquiry had he to offer to the colonels who accompanied him. Not always did he wait for
an answer--but that was after the fashion of royalty in general. He passed onwards towards
St. George's Chapel. But the military pomp did not end in what is called the upper quadrangle.
In the lower ward, at a very humble distance from the regular troops, were drawn up a splendid
body of men, ycleped the Windsor Volunteers; and most gracious were the nods of royalty to
the well-known drapers, and hatters, and booksellers, who had the honour to hold commissions
in that distinguished regiment. The salutations, however, were short, and onwards went the
cortege, for the chapel bell was tolling in, and the king was always punctual.

Great was the crowd to see the king and his family return from chapel; for by this time London
had poured forth its chaises and one, and the astonished inmates of Cheapside and St. Mary
Axe were elbowing each other to see how a monarch smiled. They saw him well; and often have
I heard the disappointed exclamation, "Is that the king?" They saw a portly man, in a plain
suit of regimentals, and no crown upon his head. What a fearful falling off from the king of
the story-books!

The terrace, however, was the great Sunday attraction; and though Bishop Porteus remonstrated
with his majesty for suffering people to crowd together, and bands to play on these occasions,
I cannot think that the good-tempered monarch committed any mortal sin in walking amongst his
people in their holiday attire. This terrace was a motley scene.

    The peasant's toe did gall the courtier's gibe.

The barber from Eton and his seven daughters elbowed the dean who rented his back parlour,
when he was in the sixth form,--and who now was crowding to the front rank for a smile of majesty,
having heard that the Bishop of Chester was seriously indisposed. The prime minister waited
quietly amidst the crush, till the royal party should descend from their dining-room,--smiling
at, if not unheeding, the anxious inquiries of the stock-broker from Change Alley, who wondered
if Mr. Pitt would carry a gold stick before the king. The only time I saw that minister was
under these circumstances. It was the year before he died. He stood firmly and proudly amongst
the crowd for some half-hour till the king should arrive. The monarch, of course, immediately
recognised him; the contrast in the demeanour of the two personages made a remarkable impression
upon me--and that of the minister first showed me an example of the perfect self-possession
of men of great abilities.

