The masters of the country could, if they chose, do much to render the country more healthy,
more fertile, more capable of supporting a numerous population. They might direct the course
of the annual floods, and save their excess. When the land was managed by a proprietory possessing
intelligence, energy, and foresight, it had, especially in minor details, a grace and picturesque
beauty of its own. When every foot of land was carefully cultivated, when the two great streams
were thoroughly kept in hand, their banks and those of the numerous canals intersecting the
plains were overhung with palms. The eye fell with pleasure upon the tall trunks with their
waving plumes, upon the bouquets of broad leaves with their centre of yellow dates; upon the
cereals and other useful and ornamental plants growing under their gentle shade, and forming
a carpet for the rich and sumptuous vegetation above. Around the villages perched upon their
mounds the orchards spread far and wide, carrying the scent of their orange trees into the
surrounding country, and presenting, with their masses of sombre foliage studded with golden
fruit, a picture of which the eye could never grow weary.

No long series of military disasters was required to destroy all this charm; fifty years, or,
at most, a century, of bad administration was enough.[24] Set a score of Turkish pachas to
work, one after the other, men such as those whom contemporary travellers have encountered
at Mossoul and Bagdad; with the help of their underlings they will soon have done more harm
than the marches and conflicts of armies. There is no force more surely and completely destructive
than a government which is at once idle, ignorant, and corrupt.

With the exception of the narrow districts around a few towns and villages, where small groups
of population have retained something of their former energy and diligence, Mesopotamia is
now, during the greater part of the year, given over to sterility and desolation. As it is
almost entirely covered with a deep layer of vegetable earth, the spring clothes even its most
abandoned solitudes with a luxuriant growth of herbs and flowers. Horses and cattle sink to
their bellies in the perfumed leafage,[25] but after the month of May the herbage withers and
becomes discoloured; the dried stems split and crack under foot, and all verdure disappears
except from the river-banks and marshes. Upon these wave the feathery fronds of the tamarisk,
and in the stagnant or slowly moving water which fills all the depressions of the soil, aquatic
plants, water-lilies, rushes, papyrus, and gigantic reeds spring up in dense masses, and make
the low-lying country look like a vast prairie, whose native freshness even the sun at its
zenith has no power to destroy. Everywhere else nature is as dreary in its monotony as the
vast sandy deserts which border the country on the west. In one place the yellow soil is covered
with a dried, almost calcined, stubble; in another, with a grey dust which rises in clouds
before the slightest breeze; in the neighbourhood of the ancient townships it has received
a reddish hue from the quantity of broken and pulverized brick with which it is mixed. These
colours vary in different places, but from Mount Masius to the shores of the Persian Gulf,
from the Euphrates to the Tigris, the traveller is met almost constantly by the one melancholy
sight--of a country spreading out before him to the horizon, in which neglect has gone on until
the region which the biblical tradition represents as the cradle of the human race has been
rendered incapable of supporting human life.[26]

The physiognomy of Mesopotamia has then been profoundly modified since the fall of the ancient
civilization. By the indolence of man it has lost its adornments, or rather its vesture, in
the ample drapery of waving palms and standing corn that excited the admiration of Herodotus.[27]
But the general characteristics and leading contours of the landscape remain what they were.
Restore in thought one of those Babylonian structures whose lofty ruins now serve as observatories
for the explorer or passing traveller. Suppose yourself, in the days of Nebuchadnezzar, seated
upon the summit of the temple of Bel, some hundred or hundred and twenty yards above the level
of the plain. At such a height the smiling and picturesque details which were formerly so plentiful
and are now so rare, would not be appreciated. The domed surfaces of the woods would seem flat,
the varied cultivation, the changing colours of the fields and pastures would hardly be distinguished.
You would be struck then, as you are struck to-day, by the extent and uniformity of the vast
plain which stretches away to all the points of the compass.

In Assyria, except towards the south where the two rivers begin to draw in towards each other,
the plains are varied by gentle undulations. As the traveller approaches the northern and eastern
frontiers, chains of hills, and even snowy peaks, loom before him. In Chaldæa there is nothing
of the kind. The only accidents of the ground are those due to human industry; the dead level
stretches away as far as the eye can follow it, and, like the sea, melts into the sky at the
horizon.

NOTES:

[18] HERODOTUS, i. 193: Hê de gê tôn Assuriôn huetai men oligôi.

[19] LOFTUS, Susiana and Chaldæa, i. vol. 8vo. 1857, London, p. 73.

[20] LOFTUS, Susiana and Chaldæa, p. 73; LAYARD, Discoveries in the Ruins of Nineveh and Babylon,
p. 146 (i. vol. 8vo. 1853).

[21] HERODOTUS, exaggerates this difference, but it is a real one. "The plant," he says, "is
nourished and the ears formed by means of irrigation from the river. For this river does not,
as in Egypt, overflow the cornlands of its own accord, but is spread over them by the hand
or by the help of engines," i. 193. [Our quotations are from Prof. Rawlinson's Herodotus (4
vols. 8vo. 1875; Murray); Ed.] The inundations of the Tigris and Euphrates do not play so important
a rôle in the lives of the inhabitants of Mesopotamia, as that of the Nile in those of the
Egyptians.

[22] LAYARD, A Second Series of the Monuments of Nineveh, plate 27 (London, oblong folio, 1853).

[23] LAYARD, Discoveries, pp. 551-556; LOFTUS, Chaldæa and Susiana, chap. x.

[24] LAYARD (Discoveries, pp. 467, 468 and 475) tells us what the Turks "have made of two of
the finest rivers in the world, one of which is navigable for 850 miles from its mouth, and
the other for 600 miles."

[25] LAYARD, Nineveh and its Remains, vol. i. p. 78 (1849).

[26] LAYARD, Nineveh and its Remains, vol. ii. pp. 68-75.

[27] HERODOTUS, i. 193.

§ 3.--The Primitive Elements of the Population.

The two great factors of all life and of all vegetable production are water and warmth, so
that of the two great divisions of the country we have just described, the more southern must
have been the first inhabited, or at least, the first to invite and aid its inhabitants to
make trial of civilization.

In the north the two great rivers are far apart. The vast spaces which separate them include
many districts which have always been, and must ever be, very difficult of irrigation, and
consequently of cultivation. In the south, on the other hand, below the thirty-fourth degree
of latitude, the Tigris and Euphrates approach each other until a day's march will carry the
traveller from one to the other; and for a distance of some eighty leagues, ending but little
short of the point of junction, their beds are almost parallel. In spite of the heat, which
is, of course, greater than in northern Mesopotamia, nothing is easier than to carry the blessings
of irrigation over the whole of such a region. When the water in the rivers and canals is low,
it can be raised by the aid of simple machines, similar in principle to those we described
in speaking of Egypt.[28]

It is here, therefore, that we must look for the scene of the first attempts in Asia to pass
from the anxious and uncertain life of the fisherman, the hunter, or the nomad shepherd, to
that of the sedentary husbandman, rooted to the soil by the pains he has taken to improve its
capabilities, and by the homestead he has reared at the border of his fields. In the tenth
and eleventh chapters of Genesis we have an echo of the earliest traditions preserved by the
Semitic race of their distant origin. There is no room for mistake. When the sacred writer
wishes to tell us the origin of human society, he transports us into Lower Mesopotamia. It
is there that he causes the posterity of Noah to build the first great city, Babel, the prototype
of the Babylon of history; it is there that he tells us the confusion of tongues was accomplished,
and that the common centre existed from which men spread themselves over the whole surface
of the earth, to become different nations. The oldest cities known to the collector of these
traditions were those of Chaldæa, of the region bordering on the Persian Gulf. Inscriptions
from which fresh secrets are wrested day by day; ruins of buildings whose dates are to be approximately
divined from their plans, their structure, and their decorations; statues, statuettes, bas-reliefs,
and all the various débris of a great civilization, when studied with the industrious ardour
which distinguishes modern science, enable the critic to realize the vast antiquity of those
Chaldæan cities, in which legend and history are so curiously mingled.

Even before they could decipher their meaning Assyriologists had compared, from the palæographic
point of view, the different varieties of the written character known as cuneiform--a character
which lent itself for some two thousand years, to the notation of the five or six successive
languages, at least, in which the inhabitants of Western Asia expressed their thoughts. These
wedge-shaped characters are found in their most primitive and undeveloped forms in the mounds
dotted over the southern districts of Mesopotamia, in company with the earliest signs of those
types which are especially characteristic of the architecture, ornamentation, and plastic figuration
of Assyria.

There is another particular in which the monumental records and the biblical tradition are
in accord. During those obscure centuries that saw the work sketched out from which the civilization
of the Tigris and Euphrates basin was, in time, to be developed, the Chaldæan population was
not homogeneous; the country was inhabited by tribes who had neither a common origin nor a
common language. This we are told in Genesis. The earliest chiefs to build cities in Shinar
are there personified in the person of Nimrod, who is the son of Cush, and the grandson of
Ham. He and his people must be placed, therefore, in the same family as the Ethiopians, the
Egyptians, and the Libyans, the Canaanites and the Phoenicians.[31]

A little lower down in the same genealogical table we find attached to the posterity of Shem
that Asshur who, as we are told in the verses quoted above, left the plains of Shinar in order
to found Nineveh in the upper country.[32] So, too, it was from Ur of the Chaldees that Terah,
another descendant of Shem, and, through Abraham, the ancestor of the Jewish people, came up
into Canaan.[33]

