"I think, if the different churches of a city, for example, would rent a building where there
should be a billiard-table, one or two ninepin-alleys, a reading-room, a garden and grounds
for ball playing or innocent lounging, that they would do more to keep their young people from
the ways of sin than a Sunday-school could. Nay, more: I would go further. I would have a portion
of the building fitted up with scenery and a stage, for the getting up of tableaux or dramatic
performances, and thus give scope for the exercise of that histrionic talent of which there
is so much lying unemployed in society.

"Young people do not like amusements any better for the wickedness connected with them. The
spectacle of a sweet little child singing hymns, and repeating prayers, of a pious old Uncle
Tom dying for his religion, has filled theatres night after night, and proved that there really
is no need of indecent or improper plays to draw full houses.

"The things that draw young people to places of amusement are not at first gross things. Take
the most notorious public place in Paris,--the Jardin Mabille, for instance,--and the things
which give it its first charm are all innocent and artistic. Exquisite beds of lilies, roses,
gillyflowers, lighted with jets of gas so artfully as to make every flower translucent as a
gem; fountains where the gaslight streams out from behind misty wreaths of falling water and
calla-blossoms; sofas of velvet turf, canopied with fragrant honeysuckle; dim bowers overarched
with lilacs and roses; a dancing-ground under trees whose branches bend with a fruitage of
many-colored lamps; enchanting music and graceful motion; in all these there is not only no
sin, but they are really beautiful and desirable; and if they were only used on the side and
in the service of virtue and religion, if they were contrived and kept up by the guardians
and instructors of youth, instead of by those whose interest it is to demoralize and destroy,
young people would have no temptation to stray into the haunts of vice.

"In Prussia, under the reign of Frederick William II., when one good, hard-handed man governed
the whole country like a strict schoolmaster, the public amusements for the people were made
such as to present a model for all states. The theatres were strictly supervised, and actors
obliged to conform to the rules of decorum and morality. The plays and performances were under
the immediate supervision of men of grave morals, who allowed nothing corrupting to appear;
and the effect of this administration and restraint is to be seen in Berlin even to this day.
The public gardens are full of charming little resorts, where, every afternoon, for a very
moderate sum, one can have either a concert of good music, or a very fair dramatic or operatic
performance. Here whole families may be seen enjoying together a wholesome and refreshing entertainment,--the
mother and aunts with their knitting, the baby, the children of all ages, and the father,--their
faces radiant with that mild German light of contentment and good will which one feels to be
characteristic of the nation. When I saw these things, and thought of our own outcast, unprovided
boys and young men, haunting the streets and alleys of cities, in places far from the companionship
of mothers and sisters, I felt as if it would be better for a nation to be brought up by a
good strict schoolmaster king than to try to be a republic."

"Yes," said I, "but the difficulty is to get the good schoolmaster king. For one good shepherd,
there are twenty who use the sheep only for their flesh and their wool. Republics can do all
that kings can,--witness our late army and sanitary commission. Once fix the idea thoroughly
in the public mind that there ought to be as regular and careful provision for public amusement
as there is for going to church and Sunday-school, and it will be done. Central Park in New
York is a beginning in the right direction, and Brooklyn is following the example of her sister
city. There is, moreover, an indication of the proper spirit in the increased efforts that
are made to beautify Sunday-school rooms, and make them interesting, and to have Sunday-school
fêtes and picnics,--the most harmless and commendable way of celebrating the Fourth of July.
Why should saloons and bar-rooms be made attractive by fine paintings, choice music, flowers,
and fountains, and Sunday-school rooms be four bare walls? There are churches whose broad aisles
represent ten and twenty millions of dollars, and whose sons and daughters are daily drawn
to circuses, operas, theatres, because they have tastes and feelings, in themselves perfectly
laudable and innocent, for the gratification of which no provision is made in any other place."

"I know one church," said Rudolph, "whose Sunday-school room is as beautifully adorned as any
haunt of sin. There is a fountain in the centre, which plays into a basin surrounded with shells
and flowers; it has a small organ to lead the children's voices, and the walls are hung with
oil paintings and engravings from the best masters. The festivals of the Sabbath school, which
are from time to time held in this place, educate the taste of the children, as well as amuse
them; and, above all, they have through life the advantage of associating with their early
religious education all those ideas of taste, elegance, and artistic culture which too often
come through polluted channels.

"When the amusement of the young shall become the care of the experienced and the wise, and
the floods of wealth that are now rolling over and over, in silent investments, shall be put
into the form of innocent and refined pleasures for the children and youth of the state, our
national festivals may become days to be desired, and not dreaded.

"On the Fourth of July, our city fathers do in a certain dim wise perceive that the public
owes some attempt at amusement to its children, and they vote large sums, principally expended
in bell-ringing, cannon, and fireworks. The sidewalks are witness to the number who fall victims
to the temptations held out by grog-shops and saloons; and the papers, for weeks after, are
crowded with accounts of accidents. Now, a yearly sum expended to keep up, and keep pure, places
of amusement which hold out no temptation to vice, but which excel all vicious places in real
beauty and attractiveness, would greatly lessen the sum needed to be expended on any one particular
day, and would refine and prepare our people to keep holidays and festivals appropriately."

"For my part," said Mrs. Crowfield, "I am grieved at the opprobrium which falls on the race
of boys. Why should the most critical era in the life of those who are to be men, and to govern
society, be passed in a sort of outlawry,--a rude warfare with all existing institutions? The
years between ten and twenty are full of the nervous excitability which marks the growth and
maturing of the manly nature. The boy feels wild impulses, which ought to be vented in legitimate
and healthful exercise. He wants to run, shout, wrestle, ride, row, skate; and all these together
are often not sufficient to relieve the need he feels of throwing off the excitability that
burns within.

"For the wants of this period what safe provision is made by the church, or by the state, or
any of the boy's lawful educators? In all the Prussian schools amusements are as much a part
of the regular school system as grammar or geography. The teacher is with the boys on the playground,
and plays as heartily as any of them. The boy has his physical wants anticipated. He is not
left to fight his way, blindly stumbling against society, but goes forward in a safe path,
which his elders and betters have marked out for him.

"In our country, the boy's career is often a series of skirmishes with society. He wants to
skate, and contrives ingeniously to dam the course of a brook and flood a meadow which makes
a splendid skating-ground. Great is the joy for a season, and great the skating. But the water
floods the neighboring cellars. The boys are cursed through all the moods and tenses,--boys
are such a plague! The dam is torn down with emphasis and execration. The boys, however, lie
in wait some cold night, between twelve and one, and build it up again; and thus goes on the
battle. The boys care not whose cellar they flood, because nobody cares for their amusement.
They understand themselves to be outlaws, and take an outlaw's advantage.

"Again, the boys have their sleds; and sliding down hill is splendid fun. But they trip up
some grave citizen, who sprains his shoulder. What is the result? Not the provision of a safe,
good place, where boys may slide down hill without danger to any one, but an edict forbidding
all sliding, under penalty of fine.

"Boys want to swim: it is best they should swim; and if city fathers, foreseeing and caring
for this want, should think it worth while to mark off some good place, and have it under such
police surveillance as to enforce decency of language and demeanor, they would prevent a great
deal that now is disagreeable in the unguided efforts of boys to enjoy this luxury.

"It would be cheaper in the end, even if one had to build sliding-piles, as they do in Russia,
or to build skating-rinks, as they do in Montreal,--it would be cheaper for every city, town,
and village to provide legitimate amusement for boys, under proper superintendence, than to
leave them, as they are now left, to fight their way against society.

"In the boys' academies of our country, what provision is made for amusement? There are stringent
rules, and any number of them, to prevent boys making any noise that may disturb the neighbors;
and generally the teacher thinks that, if he keeps the boys still, and sees that they get their
lessons, his duty is done. But a hundred boys ought not to be kept still. There ought to be
noise and motion among them, in order that they may healthily survive the great changes which
nature is working within them. If they become silent, averse to movement, fond of indoor lounging
and warm rooms, they are going in far worse ways than any amount of outward lawlessness could
bring them to.

"Smoking and yellow-covered novels are worse than any amount of hullabaloo; and the quietest
boy is often a poor, ignorant victim, whose life is being drained out of him before it is well
begun. If mothers could only see the series of books that are sold behind counters to boarding-school
boys, whom nobody warns and nobody cares for,--if they could see the poison, going from pillow
to pillow, in books pretending to make clear the great, sacred mysteries of our nature, but
trailing them over with the filth of utter corruption! These horrible works are the inward
and secret channel of hell, into which a boy is thrust by the pressure of strict outward rules,
forbidding that physical and out-of-door exercise and motion to which he ought rather to be
encouraged, and even driven.

"It is melancholy to see that, while parents, teachers, and churches make no provision for
boys in the way of amusement, the world, the flesh, and the devil are incessantly busy and
active in giving it to them. There are ninepin-alleys, with cigars and a bar. There are billiard-saloons,
with a bar, and, alas! with the occasional company of girls who are still beautiful, but who
have lost the innocence of womanhood, while yet retaining many of its charms. There are theatres,
with a bar, and with the society of lost women. The boy comes to one and all of these places,
seeking only what is natural and proper he should have,--what should be given him under the
eye and by the care of the Church, the school. He comes for exercise and amusement,--he gets
these, and a ticket to destruction besides,--and whose fault is it?"

"These are the aspects of public life," said I, "which make me feel that we never shall have
a perfect state till women vote and bear rule equally with men. State housekeeping has been,
hitherto, like what any housekeeping would be, conducted by the voice and knowledge of man alone.

"If women had an equal voice in the management of our public money, I have faith to believe
that thousands which are now wasted in mere political charlatanism would go to provide for
the rearing of the children of the state, male and female. My wife has spoken for the boys;
I speak for the girls also. What is provided for their physical development and amusement?
Hot, gas-lighted theatric and operatic performances, beginning at eight, and ending at midnight;
hot, crowded parties and balls; dancing with dresses tightly laced over the laboring lungs,--these
are almost the whole story. I bless the advent of croquet and skating. And yet the latter exercise,
pursued as it generally is, is a most terrible exposure. There is no kindly parental provision
for the poor, thoughtless, delicate young creature,--not even the shelter of a dressing-room
with a fire, at which she may warm her numb fingers and put on her skates when she arrives
on the ground, and to which she may retreat in intervals of fatigue; so she catches cold, and
perhaps sows the seed which with air-tight stoves and other appliances of hot-house culture
may ripen into consumption.

"What provision is there for the amusement of all the shop girls, seamstresses, factory girls,
that crowd our cities? What for the thousands of young clerks and operatives? Not long since,
in a respectable old town in New England, the body of a beautiful girl was drawn from the river
in which she had drowned herself,--a young girl only fifteen, who came to the city, far from
home and parents, and fell a victim to the temptation which brought her to shame and desperation.
Many thus fall every year who are never counted. They fall into the ranks of those whom the
world abandons as irreclaimable.

"Let those who have homes and every appliance to make life pass agreeably, and who yet yawn
over an unoccupied evening, fancy a lively young girl all day cooped up at sewing in a close,
ill-ventilated room. Evening comes, and she has three times the desire for amusement and three
times the need of it that her fashionable sister has. And where can she go? To the theatre,
perhaps, with some young man as thoughtless as herself, and more depraved; then to the bar
for a glass of wine, and another; and then, with a head swimming and turning, who shall say
where else she may be led? Past midnight and no one to look after her,--and one night ruins
her utterly and for life, and she as yet only a child!

"John Newton had a very wise saying: 'Here is a man trying to fill a bushel with chaff. Now
if I fill it with wheat first, it is better than to fight him.' This apothegm contains in it
the whole of what I would say on the subject of amusements."

IX

DRESS, OR WHO MAKES THE FASHIONS

The door of my study being open, I heard in the distant parlor a sort of flutter of silken
wings, and chatter of bird-like voices, which told me that a covey of Jenny's pretty young
street birds had just alighted there. I could not forbear a peep at the rosy faces that glanced
out under pheasants' tails, doves' wings, and nodding humming-birds, and made one or two errands
in that direction only that I might gratify my eyes with a look at them.

