THE

LAWS OF ETIQUETTE;

or,

Short Rules and Reflections

for

CONDUCT IN SOCIETY.

BY A GENTLEMAN.

PHILADELPHIA:

1836.

PREFACE

The author of the present volume has endeavoured to embody, in as short a space as possible,
some of the results of his own experience and observation in society, and submits the work
to the public, with the hope that the remarks which are contained in it, may prove available
for the benefit of others. It is, of course, scarcely possible that anything original should
be found in a volume like this: almost all that it contains must have fallen under the notice
of every man of penetration who has been in the habit of frequenting good society. Many of
the precepts have probably been contained in works of a similar character which have appeared
in England and France since the days of Lord Chesterfield. Nothing however has been copied
from them in the compilation of this work, the author having in fact scarcely any acquaintance
with books of this description, and many years having elapsed since he has opened even the
pages of the noble oracle. He has drawn entirely from his own resources, with the exception
of some hints for arrangement, and a few brief reflections, which have been derived from the
French.

The present volume is almost apart from criticism. It has no pretensions to be judged as a
literary work--its sole merit depending upon its correctness and fitness of application. Upon
these grounds he ventures to hope for it a favourable reception.

INTRODUCTION

The great error into which nearly all foreigners and most Americans fall, who write or speak
of society in this country, arises from confounding the political with the social system. In
most other countries, in England, France, and all those nations whose government is monarchical
or aristocratic, these systems are indeed similar. Society is there intimately connected with
the government, and the distinctions in one are the origin of gradations in the other. The
chief part of the society of the kingdom is assembled in the capital, and the same persons
who legislate for the country legislate also for it. But in America the two systems are totally
unconnected, and altogether different in character. In remodelling the form of the administration,
society remained unrepublican. There is perfect freedom of political privilege, all are the
same upon the hustings, or at a political meeting; but this equality does not extend to the
drawing-room or the parlour. None are excluded from the highest councils of the nation, but
it does not follow that all can enter into the highest ranks, of society. In point of fact,
we think that there is more exclusiveness in the society of this country, than there is in
that even of England--far more than there is in France. And the explanation may perhaps be
found in the fact which we hate mentioned above. There being there less danger of permanent
disarrangement or confusion of ranks by the occasional admission of the low-born aspirant,
there does not exist the same necessity for a jealous guarding of the barriers as there does
here. The distinction of classes, also, after the first or second, is actually more clearly
defined, and more rigidly observed in America, than in any country of Europe. Persons unaccustomed
to look searchingly at these matters, may be surprised to hear it; but we know from observation,
that there are among the respectable, in any city of the United States, at least ten distinct
ranks. We cannot, of course, here point them out, because we could not do it without mentioning
names.

Every man is naturally desirous of finding entrance into the best society of his country, and
it becomes therefore a matter of importance to ascertain what qualifications are demanded for
admittance.

A writer who is popularly unpopular, has remarked, that the test of standing in Boston, is
literary eminence; in New York, wealth; and in Philadelphia, purity of blood.

To this remark, we can only oppose our opinion, that none of these are indispensable, and none
of them sufficient. The society of this country, unlike that of England, does not court literary
talent. We have cases in our recollection, which prove the remark, in relation to the highest
ranks, even of Boston. Wealth has no pretensions to be the standard anywhere. In New York,
the Liverpool of America, although the rich may make greater display and bruit, yet all of
the merely rich, will find that there does exist a small and unchanging circle, whether above
or below them, 'it is not ours to say,' yet completely apart from them, into which they would
rejoice to find entrance, and from which they would be glad to receive emigrants.

Whatever may be the accomplishments necessary to render one capable of reaching the highest
platform of social eminence, and it is not easy to define clearly what they are, there is one
thing, and one alone, which will enable any man to retain his station there; and that is, GOOD
BREEDING. Without it, we believe that literature, wealth, and even blood, will be unsuccessful.
By it, if it co-exist with a certain capacity of affording pleasure by conversation, any one,
we imagine, could frequent the very best society in every city of America, and perhaps the
very best alone. To obtain, then, the manners of a gentleman is a matter of no small importance.

We do not pretend that a man will be metamorphosed into a gentleman by reading this book, or
any other book. Refined manners are like refined style which Cicero compares to the colour
of the cheeks, which is not acquired by sudden or violent exposure to heat, but by continual
walking in the sun. Good manners can certainly only be acquired by much usage in good company.
But there are a number of little forms, imperiously enacted by custom, which may be taught
in this manner, and the conscious ignorance of which often prevents persons from going into
company at all.

These forms may be abundantly absurd, but still they must be attended to; for one half the
world does and always will observe them, and the other half is at a great disadvantage if it
does not. Intercourse is constantly taking place, and an awkward man of letters, in the society
of a polished man of the world, is like a strong man contending with a skilful fencer. Mr.
Addison says, that he once saw the ablest mathematician in the kingdom utterly embarrassed,
from not knowing whether he ought to stand or sit when my lord duke drank his health. Why just
what every body else did with theirs. I unfolded it entire]y, and fastened it to my buttonhole."
"Without breaking it, of course." "Well, my dear Abb,, nobody ever eats an egg without breaking
the shell. And after your egg--?"

CHAPTER I. GOOD BREEDING.

The formalities of refined society were at first established for the purpose of facilitating
the intercourse of persons of the same standing, and increasing the happiness of all to whom
they apply. They are now kept up, both to assist the convenience of intercourse and to prevent
too great familiarity. If they are carried too far, and escape from the control of good sense,
they become impediments to enjoyment. Among the Chinese they serve only the purpose of annoying
to an incalculable degree. "The government," says De Marcy, in writing of China, "constantly
applies itself to preserve, not only in the court and among the great, but among the people
themselves, a constant habit of civility and courtesy. The Chinese have an infinity of books
upon such subjects; one of these treatises contains more than three thousand articles.-- Everything
is pointed out with the most minute detail; the manner of saluting, of visiting, of making
presents, of writing letters, of eating, etc.: and these customs have the force of laws--no
one can dispense with them. There is a special tribunal at Peking, of which it is one of the
chief duties, to ensure the observance of these civil ordinances?"

One would think that one was here reading an account of the capital of France. It depends,
then, upon the spirit in which these forms are observed, whether their result shall be beneficial
or not. The French and the Chinese are the most formal of all the nations. Yet the one is the
stiffest and most distant; the other, the easiest and most social.

"We may define politeness," says La Bruy,re, "though we cannot tell where to fix it in practice.
It observes received usages and customs, is bound to times and places, and is not the same
thing in the two sexes or in different conditions. Wit alone cannot obtain it: it is acquired
and brought to perfection by emulation. Some dispositions alone are susceptible of politeness,
as others are only capable of great talents or solid virtues. It is true politeness puts merit
forward, and renders it agreeable, and a man must have eminent qualifications to support himself
without it." Perhaps even the greatest merit cannot successfully straggle against unfortunate
and disagreeable manners. Lord Chesterfield says that the Duke of Marlborough owed his first
promotions to the suavity of his manners, and that without it he could not have risen.

La Bruy,re has elsewhere given this happy definition of politeness, the other passage being
rather a description of it. "Politeness seems to be a certain care, by the manner of our words
and actions, to make others pleased with us and themselves."

We must here stop to point out an error which is often committed both in practice and opinion,
and which consists in confounding together the gentleman and the man of fashion. No two characters
can be more distinct than these. Good sense and self-respect are the foundations of the one--notoriety
and influence the objects of the other. Men of fashion are to be seen everywhere: a pure and
mere gentleman is the rarest thing alive. Brummel was a man of fashion; but it would be a perversion
of terms to apply to him "a very expressive word in our language,--a word, denoting an assemblage
of many real virtues and of many qualities approaching to virtues, and an union of manners
at once pleasing and commanding respect,-- the word gentleman."* The requisites to compose
this last character are natural ease of manner, and an acquaintance with the "outward habit
of encounter"--dignity and self- possession--a respect for all the decencies of life, and perfect
freedom from all affectation. Dr. Johnson's bearing during his interview with the king showed
him to be a thorough gentleman, and demonstrates how rare and elevated that character is. When
his majesty expressed in the language of compliment his high opinion of Johnson's merits, the
latter bowed in silence. If Chesterfield could have retained sufficient presence of mind to
have done the same on such an occasion, he would have applauded himself to the end of his days.
So delicate is the nature of those qualities that constitute a gentleman, that there is but
one exhibition of this description of persons in all the literary and dramatic fictions from
Shakespeare downward. Scott has not attempted it. Bulwer, in "Pelham," has shot wide of the
mark. It was reserved for the author of two very singular productions, "Sydenham" and its continuation
"Alice Paulet"--works of extraordinary merits and extraordinary faults--to portray this character
completely, in the person of Mr. Paulet

* Charles Butler's Reminiscences

CHAPTER II. DRESS.

First impressions are apt to be permanent; it is therefore of importance that they should be
favourable. The dress of an individual is that circumstance from which you first form your
opinion of him. It is even more prominent than manner, It is indeed the only thing which is
remarked in a casual encounter, or during the first interview. It, therefore, should be the
first care.

What style is to our thoughts, dress is to our persons. It may supply the place of more solid
qualities, and without it the most solid are of little avail. Numbers have owed their elevation
to their attention to the toilet. Place, fortune, marriage have all been lost by neglecting
it. A man need not mingle long with the world to find occasion to exclaim with Sedaine, "Ah!
mon habit, que je vous remercie!" In spite of the proverb, the dress often does make the monk.

Your dress should always be consistent with your age and your natural exterior. That which
looks outr, on one man, will be agreeable on another. As success in this respect depends almost
entirely upon particular circumstances and personal peculiarities, it is impossible to give
general directions of much importance. We can only point out the field for study and research;
it belongs to each one's own genius and industry to deduce the results. However ugly you may
be, rest assured that there is some style of habiliment which will make you passable.

If, for example, you have a stain upon your cheek which rivals in brilliancy the best Chateau-Margout;
or, are afflicted with a nose whose lustre dims the ruby, you may employ such hues of dress,
that the eye, instead of being shocked by the strangeness of the defect, will be charmed by
the graceful harmony of the colours. Every one cannot indeed be an Adonis, but it is his own
fault if he is an Esop.

If you have bad, squinting eyes, which have lost their lashes and are bordered with red, you
should wear spectacles. If the defect be great, your glasses should be coloured. In such cases
emulate the sky rather than the sea: green spectacles are an abomination, fitted only for students
in divinity,-- blue ones are respectable and even distingue.

Almost every defect of face may be concealed by a judicious use and arrangement of hair. Take
care, however, that your hair be not of one colour and your whiskers of another; and let your
wig be large enough to cover the whole of your red or white hair.

It is evident, therefore, that though a man may be ugly, there is no necessity for his being
shocking. Would that all men were convinced of this! I verily believe that if Mr. -- in his
walking-dress, and Mr. -- in his evening costume were to meet alone, in some solitary place,
where there was nothing to divert their attention from one another, they would expire of mutual
hideousness.

If you have any defect, so striking and so ridiculous as to procure you a nickname then indeed
there is but one remedy,--renounce society.

In the morning, before eleven o'clock even if you go out, you should not be dressed. You would
be stamped a parvenu if you were seen in anything better than a reputable old frock coat. If
you remain at home, and are a bachelor, it is permitted to receive visitors in a morning gown.
In summer, calico; in winter, figured cloth, faced with fur. At dinner, a coat, of course,
is indispensable.

The effect of a frock coat is to conceal the height. If, therefore, you are beneath the ordinary
statue, or much above it, you should affect frock coats on all occasions that etiquette permits.

Before going to a ball or party it is not sufficient that you consult your mirror twenty times.
You must be personally inspected by your servant or a friend. Through defect of this, I once
saw a gentleman enter a ball-room, attired with scrupulous elegance, but with one of his suspenders
curling in graceful festoons about his feet. His glass could not show what was behind.

If you are about to present yourself in a company composed only of men, you may wear boots.
If there be but one lady present, pumps and silk-stockings are indispensable.

