Also, as at present, the washwomen were the despair of careful housekeepers. "There is no city
where so much linen is used as at Paris, and none where it is so badly washed," says our authority.
There was a legend of some gommeux [dandies] from Bordeaux who sent theirs to Saint-Domingo,
naturally, by sailing vessel, to have it whitened. Homme à bonne fortune and petit-maître were
no longer in favor, élégant was the proper appellation. The Seine water was drunk freely, but
it had already begun to be analyzed and doubted; cremation was advocated and vivisection denounced;
the classic education and Latin were derided, just as by M. Jules Lemaître; the evolution of
the species was discussed, and the sorrowfulness of the Carnival lamented,--the police were
even obliged to hire the maskers; the claque was offensively in evidence at the theatres. The
grippe arrived periodically in the month of November, to the great surprise of every one,--but
it was then called la coquette and not l'influenza. The ladies pommaded their faces, and drank
vinegar to preserve their figures; marriages were effected only in hopes of pecuniary advantages.
The honest bourgeoisie complained bitterly of the display of licentious prints on the walls
and the fronts of the bookstalls; "the young men in the cafés discussed matters which were
beyond their comprehension and which they had never studied." There was a surprising number
of points of resemblance.

Among the minor observances of social life which have come down to the present day with only
some modification of details are the billets de décès and the invitations aux funérailles.
It is only since 1760 that the names of members of the mourning families have appeared on these
invitations. In the matter of avis de naissance, in which the birth of a baby is announced,
the moderns have made great improvements, some of the designs by the cleverest Parisian artists--as
that by Willette reproduced on page 211--being quite charming. In the much more important matter
of Menus, the prodigal display of invention is worthy of the most artistic of capitals. The
luxury of the toilette is maintained with somewhat more discretion and less ostentation; many
of the modern refinements, as that of the manicure, are but intelligent developments or modifications
of the arts of the last century. Some of the social vices, as gambling and intoxication, have
greatly decreased, notwithstanding the lamentations of such prophets of evil as M. Gaston Routier,
and many of the more graceful forms of exercise, such as fencing--consult M. Koppay's spirited
sketches--have grown greatly in favor.

The Second Empire contributed a very commendable example of luxury lending itself to the interests
of history in the case of the restoration of a Pompeian house, erected by Prince Jérôme Napoleon
in the Rue Montaigne, and formally opened with a reception at which the Emperor and Empress
were present, February 14, 1860.

Max Nordau, in his Paradoxes psychologiques, thus disposes of the Parisian woman: "The Parisienne
is entirely the work of the French romancers and journalists. They make of her, literally,
whatever they wish, physically and intellectually. She speaks, she thinks, she feels, she acts,
she dresses herself even, assumes attitudes, walks and stands upright, according to rules which
the writers à la mode impose upon her. She is in their hands a doll furnished with springs
and obeys with docility all their suggestions," etc. On the contrary, it is probably safe to
say, speaking generally, that the French romancers systematically defame their compatriots,
and that even Parisian society is not the institution it is represented to be in novels, on
the stage, and by many of the essayists. It has been reserved, for example, for a very recent
writer, M. Jules Bois, to portray, for the first time in France, the indignation of the fiancée
at the fact, almost constant, that her future husband comes to her without that freshness of
soul and body which is required in her case. It would not have required very accurate social
observers, it would seem, to have discovered earlier this phenomenon. M. Bois counsels the
wives not to compromise themselves by weak forgiveness of the egotistical and adulterous spouses.

The frightful conflagration of the Bazar de la Charité, in the Rue Jean-Goujon, on the 4th
of May, 1897,--the most terrible catastrophe of this nature that had been seen in Paris since
the fire at the ball given by the Austrian ambassador on the 1st of July, 1810, in honor of
the marriage of Napoleon I and Marie-Louise, and the burning of the Opéra-Comique in 1887,--offered,
in the long list of its victims, a most tragic demonstration of the fact that the women of
Paris of the highest society knew how to occupy themselves in works of practical benevolence.
Of the hundred and seventeen victims, all but six were ladies and young girls; and the roll
of illustrious names was headed by that of the Duchesse d'Alençon. This philanthropic institution
was founded in 1885 by M. Henri Blount, its honorary president; its annual bazaars, for the
benefit of the poor, were held at first in the Salle Albert-le-Grand, then in the hôtel of
the Comtesse Branicka in 1888, in the following year in that of M. Henry Say, and from 1890
to 1896 in two houses in the Rue de la Boëtie. In 1897, M. Michel Heine placed at the disposition
of the managers, gratuitously, a large open space in the Rue Jean-Goujon. The new bazaar was
here inaugurated on the 3d of May, and the receipts exceeded forty-five thousand francs. On
the day after the catastrophe, some charitable person donated, anonymously, to the Œuvre de
la Charité the sum of nine hundred and thirty-seven thousand francs, representing the amount
of the sales of the preceding year, that the poor, also, might not suffer by this catastrophe.
A subscription opened by the Figaro for the same charitable purpose, and for those who had
distinguished themselves, at the risk of their lives, in saving victims from the flames, realized
the sum of one million two hundred and eighteen thousand and fifteen francs, and another, by
the Rappel, more than fifteen thousand francs. And, finally, the Comtesse de Castellane, who
had been the American Miss Gould, gave a million of francs for the purchase of another site
and the construction of another edifice for the work of the organized charity of Paris.

Among the lighter details of information concerning this illustrious society may be mentioned
an article by the Vicomte A. de Royer in a recent number of the Revue des Revues (October,
1898), which undertakes to demonstrate, by means of documents, that, of the forty-five thousand
"noble" families in France, only four hundred and fifty are in a position to substantiate a
claim to ancient lineage, and that, of the three hundred and forty-six princely families of
France, which are all that are left, not one has the right to wear the closed coronet. All
the titles of the latter are usurped, and are purely fanciful. No fewer than twenty-five thousand
families put the particle de in front of their names without a shadow of right; and it appears
that the Republic manufactures another forty of such families every year. When official permission
to thus distinguish the family name is refused, it is simply dispensed with. In addition, the
Pope gives or sells, on an average, sixty titles of "count" or "prince" every year, and though
these are not current, the possessors wear them, just the same. The Paris Journal demanded,
indignantly, if M. de Royer thought he was doing a patriotic work in thus closing the French
market to American heiresses.

To conclude: we quote what M. Henri Lavedan, in his recent work: Les Jeunes, ou L'Espoir de
la France, gives as a typical conversation between three young men of the highest society in
Paris, "the hope of France." The scene is laid in the apartments of D'Allarège, about five
o'clock in the afternoon. All three are smoking. The day is declining; they comprehend each
other in silence. At intervals, they alternately allow a monosyllable to fall, which is as
the affirmation of their absence of thought:

BRIOUZE.--"Yes...." (Puff of smoke.)

MONTOIS.--"Yes...."

(Then a black hole of silence. Puffs. Spirals. Sound of carriages. Paris continues its murmur.)

MONTOIS.--"Ah! la, la!"

D'ALLARÈGE.--"Is it not?"

BRIOUZE.--"To whom do you say it?"

(Blue smoke through the nose. Ashes fall from the cigar. And time passes.)

D'ALLARÈGE (to Montois).--"And besides that?"

MONTOIS.--"Not much."

THE BOURGEOIS AND THE LOWER CLASSES

FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE MIDDLE AGES TO THE PRESENT DAY

If the history of a city were written with anything like a due exactness of proportion, much
of it would be but a weary record of human misery, and through even the most decorous and conventional
of chronicles there appear constantly unpleasant glimpses of the terrible under-strata that
sometimes upheave and make ruin. So long as this apparently inevitable and irremediable discord
does not appear to affect the general march of events, it is glozed over. The condition of
the middle and lower classes in Paris through the Middle Ages was that common to all mediæval
cities, and would seem to modern ideas all but unendurable. To the absence of law, municipal,
protective, or sanitary, the disregard of life and property, the pestiferous condition of houses
and streets, to famine, war, pestilence, and constant internal discords, were added the intemperances
of the seasons--apparently much more severe than at present--and the ravages of wild beasts.
The Seine--quite regardless of the praise the Emperor Julian had bestowed upon its moderation
and uniform flow--was constantly bursting its bonds and devastating with inundation the Cité
and the adjoining shores; the excessive cold of the winters is a constant source of complaint
in the local annals. That of 1433-1434 was heralded by a "formidable wind" which, on the 7th
of October, raged for nine consecutive hours, demolishing many houses and uprooting many trees,--three
hundred of the latter in the wood of Vincennes alone. The frost commenced on the 31st of December
and continued uninterruptedly for eighty days; for forty days the snow fell continuously, night
and day; toward the end of March, freezing weather returned, and lasted till Easter, the 17th
of April. In one tree alone there were found a hundred and forty birds dead with cold. In 1437
and 1438 the wolves penetrated into the city, by way of the river, and devoured women and children,
in the last week of September, 1437, while the king was in the city, "fourteen persons, big
and little, between Montmartre and the Porte Saint-Antoine." There was one most monstrous beast,
called Courtaud, because he had no tail, that was an object of special terror. "But the wolves,
for the Parisians, were less to be feared than the seigneurs and the brigands called escorcheurs,
which followed in their train."

