We mount the stairs to the next story. These two rooms are rented to a commercial college.
This door opposite admits you to the hall, which has seats for nine hundred persons. It is
extremely simple, but the tints of the walls and ceiling are delightful, and you have only
to listen to those members of the ---- Club, who have leased it for their concerts, to realize
that its acoustic properties are perfect.

Still higher, we find the room of the board, where, once at least in each month, the directors
sup at their own expense, and manage the affairs of the Association. Here, too, its various
committees meet. In the room adjoining, a French lesson is going on; in that, German; in this,
penmanship. Still higher up we find the "Tech" Glee Club practising, and this large room adjoining
is filled with those who are learning vocal music. The building seems a very hive--something
going on everywhere.

Let us now descend to the basement. The gymnasium is here in full blast. Men in every kind
of costume and in every possible and, to many persons, impossible position, while the superintendent
is intently watching each to see that he is properly developing; every kind of bath and many
of them are right at hand, and dressing-rooms with boxes for eight hundred persons.

And this great building and all these appliances are the gift of the citizens of Boston to
the young men from the country. Many of the donors remember the time when they came lonely
to the city, and determined, if they could prevent it, that no young man, to-day, in the same
position, should be without a place where all of which they so greatly felt the need is supplied.

These needs are thus supplied. Early in the history of the Association, a circular was sent
to every evangelical pastor in New England, asking him to give information of each young man
coming to the city, that he might be met at the station or received at the rooms.

Let us sketch a case: We have received word that John ---- is to arrive from G---- by such
a train. During the journey, thoughts of the dear ones he has left crowd upon him. He is already
sick for home, as he looks about him and sees no familiar face. He has left harbor for the
first time. All before him is uncertain: all about him strange. He reaches the city; friends
are there at the station to welcome this and that one of his fellow-travelers. He knows no
one. No one cares for his coming. No one? Yes, there is a young man scanning closely the faces
which pass. Suddenly his eye encounters our traveler, and at once the question: "Are you John
----? 'Tis well. I am from the Association. We are expecting you." Together they go to the
building, and, even before reaching it, our stranger is not quite a stranger. One man at least
is interested in him. "This is the building." "What, this fine place ready to welcome me? Why,
this is grand!" Here, too, is the electric light, but not baneful this, no wrecker's false
gleam, but like the light upon the pier, showing safe entrance and anchorage. "This is our
secretary. Mr. D., this is John ----." "Glad to see you. Had you a pleasant journey? What can
we do for you? You want a boarding-place! Well, here is the book. What can you pay? Very well,
Mrs. B. has a vacancy and it is just the place you want. I will send some one with you there.
Your recommendation was such that we have found a situation for you, and they will be ready
to see you to-morrow. We have an entertainment this evening, and I shall be glad to introduce
you to several young men." Imagine, if you can, what such an introduction to city life is to
a young man, and what is his coming to the city without it. He is no stranger now. He has found
comfort, companionship, sympathy, occupation. His heart goes home indeed, but it is in thankfulness
that he writes and describes his surroundings, and glad is he at the close of the evening to
join with others in, prayer and thanksgiving to his mother's God, for the blessings of the
Association; and later, in the quiet of his own room, he renews his thanks, sleeps peacefully,
and, full of hope, takes hold of work in the morning. He is directed to the church of his choice
and is introduced to the pastor. Thus, at the very first, he is surrounded by good influences
in a city where thousands are on the watch with every allurement to tempt just such strangers
to destruction of both soul and body. Should John ---- be ready, in his turn, to help others,
work enough can be found for him in one of the several departments of social or spiritual life.

Should he fall sick, a committee of the Association visit and care for him, and, if necessary,
watch with him. There have been many cases where young men have been carefully tended during
a long illness, and a few where even the funeral expenses have been borne by the Association,
and even burial given to the body in the Association lot at Forest Hills Cemetery. This is
no fancy sketch. Many, many actual Johns are here pictured, and many souls will, by-and-by,
be found thanking God that he put it into the hearts of his servants to establish the Young
Men's Christian Association.

But whence this well-appointed building? Within the first year of its life, a building fund
was projected, and, as far as we know, this was absolutely the first step in this direction
taken by any Association, either in this country or elsewhere. A library fund was also started
at the same time.

  A few subscriptions towards
  a building were obtained,
  which, in 1858, amounted to           $1,200

  In 1859-60 were added                  1,644

  In 1873 (for altering and
  furnishing),                           5,700

  In 1873-74,                            4,400

  In 1874-75,                            7,800

  In 1882, the estate of Daniel
  P. Stone gave                         25,000

  Inspired by this, a meeting
  of citizens was held at the
  Brunswick, where committees
  on finance were appointed,
  and the result was a subscription
  of                                    175,000    $220,744

  By will have been bequeathed:
  By Charles H. Cook,                      300
  "  Miss Nabby Joy,                     5,000
  " J. Sullivan Warren,                 13,059
  " Dr. George E. Hatton,                5,000       23,359

  And by subscriptions in connection with, Fairs:

  1859--Chinese Fair,                    4,787
  1873--Bazaar of Nations,              12,246       17,033
                                                   --------
                                                   $261,136

We have mentioned "Fairs." These have been three in number; each being held in the Music Hall,
and owed their success, not only to the energy of the young men, but to the hearty sympathy
and untiring exertions of the ladies of the Boston churches.

  The first was held in 1858, and netted        $9,650
  The second was called the Chinese
  Fair, all the decorations being Chinese,--a
  pagoda reaching fifty-six
  feet to the very height of the hall,
  which netted                                  33,000

  The third was the most elaborate--the
  Bazaar of the Nations; the Music
  Hall being made to represent a street
  of foreign houses, where, by persons
  in costume, the goods of the different
  nations were sold. It came in
  the spring and immediately after the
  fire, but netted                              28,673
                                              --------
                                               $71,323

It is certainly to the credit of the Association that up to 1882, when the large subscription
of $200,000 was secured, the amount raised through the exertions of the young men and the ladies
exceeded by more than $10,000 all moneys subscribed.

The influence of the Boston Association has not been merely local. Through Mr. L.P. Rowland,
long its general secretary, and now the veteran secretary of the United States, in his capacity
of corresponding secretary of the international committee, the first State work was done and
Associations formed in all parts of Massachusetts. The present Boston building is now the headquarters
of the Massachusetts committee, where the State secretary may always be reached. The secretary
of the Association is a member of the State committee, a present member of the board, and an
ex-president is now chairman of the same. In national matters, also, the Boston Association
has responded to every call. In the early days of the war a drill-club was organized by one
of its board, and he, as well as a large number of his men, went into service. And at the call
of Mr. Stuart, of Philadelphia, the committee of the Christian Commission was represented by
an ex-president and an army committee formed in the Association, which sent the large sum in
money of $333,237.49, and immense stores of all kinds to the field.

The same committee acted as almoners at the time of Chicago's great fire, and also when the
Western woods fires caused such suffering.

Without boasting, for much more might have been done, the Boston Association has no cause to
be ashamed of its history. Beginning with all ready to criticize, and many disapproving, the
Association has worked itself into the confidence of the community; and the Reverend Joseph
Cook, who was introduced as a lecturer to Boston under its auspices, thus speaks of the Association
at the close of its quarter-century. He says:--

"First, That there is a vast amount of work which should be done for young men in cities, and
that, as the proportion of the American population living in cities had increased since the
opening of this century from one twenty-fifth to one fifth, the importance is great and growing.

"Second, That neither individual churches taken separately, nor individual denominations taken
separately, can do this work easily or adequately.

"Third, That all the evangelical denominations united in a city can do this work easily by
the organization of a Young Men's Christian Association as their representative."

A short time ago a committee of conference, made up of eight leading city clergymen and as
many laymen, two of each denomination, unanimously passed the following resolutions:--

"Resolved, That the great and peculiar dangers to which young men are exposed in this, as in
other cities, clearly calls, for the work of the Young Men's Christian Association.

"Resolved, That the Association represents the Church working through its young men for the
redemption of young men, and, therefore, it is entitled to the continued confidence, support,
and co-operation of the churches."

After long years of patient and steady work, the Boston Young Men's Christian Association has
secured the confidence of the Christian community to the extent of more than $300,000, in the
palpable form of stone and brick, which beautifies one of the finest sites in our city. It
stands also as a monument of the liberality of Christian Boston and her appreciation of this
great work for young men in the Master's name.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OHIO FLOODS.

BY THE HON. GEORGE E. JENKS.

Several causes are assigned for the excessive rise of water in the Ohio valley. This water-shed
is accredited with an area of two hundred thousand square miles, and it lies upon the border-line
of hot and cold temperatures. It is subject to heavy storms, and sometimes, in winter, to large
accumulations of snow. It is presumable also, the rainfall is greater than the average of the
country. When, following great deposits of snow, warm, heavy, and prolonged rains occur, excessive
floods must be the result. Add to these coincidents the fact that forests, once existing, are
now so nearly annihilated that little protection is offered against a rapid dissolution of
the snow, and the sudden freezing of the earth in an interval of the late storm preventing
absorption of rain falling thereafter. The waters thus produced fall into the main streams
without hindrance, like rain from roofs of buildings. An aggregation of waters in this valley,
rising from fifty to seventy-one feet, is of annual occurrence, intensified according to excesses
and completeness of coincidents.

The damage arising from the Ohio flood of 1882 has been estimated at twelve millions of dollars;
that of 1883 at thirty-five to forty millions of dollars. If these estimates are approximately
correct, what must have been the damage from the flood of 1884!

There are other causes for the floods in the Ohio valley, and in all Southern streams, that
have been but little considered, which exercise undoubted and immense influence in solving
the peculiarities of the question under consideration, and afford striking contrasts in different
sections of this country.

There are two water systems presented in North America. North of about the forty-first degree
of latitude probably the southern limit of the once glacial region--a reservoir system prevails
toward the headwaters of all the streams. It includes New England, New York, Michigan, Wisconsin,
Minnesota, Dakota, and to the Rocky Mountains divide, and all of the British Provinces to the
Arctic Circle. It also somewhat occurs on the western slope of the Rockies. This region is
notable for the great lake system, and the immense number of smaller lakes and ponds--natural
inland reservoirs, supposed to be largely of glacial formation to hold back considerable portions
of the cumulative waters upon any given water-shed, and serving to restrain the outflow, even
after they are filled. These basins exercise a happy and protective influence in many ways.

South of the forty-first parallel, the rivers have no reservoirs to hold any part of the flow
from their water-shed. Within this vast area few lakes or ponds exist. The superabundance of
water has no restraint, but at once takes to the bottom lands. To this southern system the
Ohio River notably belongs, with all its tributaries. Within its two hundred thousand square
miles of area, scarcely a natural reservoir is to be found. No other part of the country is
so devoid of basins. Its feeders drain the western slopes of the Alleghany and Cumberland Mountains--Western
Pennsylvania and West Virginia, representing sixty thousand square miles, the southern portions
of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, and most of Kentucky and Tennessee. These States are without
lakes or ponds. Nothing intervenes to hold back any portion of the vast flow from these coincidents
of nature before spoken of, and therefore the excessive floods of last year and this. Such
results must continue to follow.

During the summer droughts the other extreme prevails. For lack of a reservoir system to withhold
and control the flow of water, the river falls from flood-tide--seventy-one feet--to points
so low as to seriously impede or prevent navigation. Sometimes even the smallest steamers and
barges fail to pass between Pittsburgh and Cincinnati, and coal famines have not been unfrequent,
resulting from difficult navigation. An equable flow of this stream is impossible. It will
always be subject to these extremes. Nothing but an extensive method of filling or diking is
likely to prevent the inundation of cities and villages that are not seventy feet above low-water
mark, with attending suffering and destruction of life and property. All Southern rivers are
liable to like extremes.

In contrast, it may be noted that the St. Lawrence River but slightly varies its flow, above
Montreal, because of the restraining power of the Great Lakes, its feeders. The upper Mississippi
rises not to excess because of the thousands of lakes and lakelets in Wisconsin, Minnesota,
and Dakota, its sources. The floods occur in its southern portion, chiefly below St. Louis.
But for this reservoir system its navigation in the upper portion would be seriously impeded
in summer seasons.

Disastrous floods can scarcely occur on the St. John's, St. Croix, Penobscot, Kennebec, Androscoggin,
Saco, Piscataqua, Merrimack, Connecticut, or Hudson Rivers, except from damming of the ice
in winter or springtime (and that cause is of rare occurrence), such is the elaborate system
of reservoirs about the headwaters of these streams. This northern country is greatly benefited
by these excavations occurring from geological causes.

The Merrimack River has a water-shed of about four thousand square miles miles--one fiftieth
part of that of the Ohio. It has the Winnipiseogee, Squam, and Newfound Lakes, and hundreds
of ponds to fill, that store a large amount of water, before any considerable rise can take
place in the river, and then they restrain the flow. No excess of water comes through the Winnipiseogee
River, though it is the outlet of a water-shed nearly as great as of the Pemigewasset. The
freshets of the Merrimack come chiefly from the last-named stream and minor tributaries. Without
these reservoirs, the manufacturing establishments at Lawrence, Lowell, and Manchester, would
cease to be operated by water-power during the summer droughts. The highest flow of water in
the Merrimack known in forty-six years, as measured at the Lowell dam, was thirteen and seven-twelfths
feet. This occurred in 1852. Only a few times have freshets exceeded ten feet rise over that dam.

The greatest fall of water and rise of the freshet, in this valley, known at Concord, New Hampshire,
occurred in August, 1826. This storm notably caused the land-slide in the Saco valley, which
buried the Willey family. The next was in early October, 1869, which caused the slide of seventy-five
acres of land on the western side of Tri-Pyramid Mountain into Mad River, in Waterville.

Messrs. Rand, McNally, and Company, of Chicago, in their Atlas of the World, give data to illustrate
the two river systems of the country spoken of. Names of sixty-seven lakes are given in Maine,
and beside these are ponds almost innumerable. By census statistics given, her reservoir and
land areas are as 1 to 13. New Hampshire is accredited with three hundred and sixty-two lakes
and ponds, being as 1 acre to 41 of land. Vermont has forty-one lakes and ponds, including
Lake Champlain, being as 1 acre to 24 of land. Massachusetts, forty-seven lakes and ponds;
Rhode Island, forty-seven; Connecticut, eighteen; New York, two hundred and sixty, beside her
great lakes; New Jersey, ten; Pennsylvania (chiefly northeastern portion), fifty-eight; Michigan,
ninety-eight lakes, and ponds in great number; Wisconsin, seventy-two lakes, and a large number
of ponds; Minnesota, one hundred and forty-two lakes, and ponds innumerable; Dakota, fifteen
lakes, and a great number of ponds; and Iowa, forty-eight lakes.

In contrast, Virginia has only Lake Drummond--really a part of the Dismal Swamp; West Virginia,
Ohio, Kentucky, and Tennessee, none; Indiana, eleven lakes, and Illinois, eight,--all on northern
water-shed. The Carolinas, Georgia, and Alabama have no reservoirs. Lagoons exist in the States
bordering the Mississippi River and the Gulf, which are filled by the overflow of the rivers.

A consultation of any good atlas of our country will confirm these statements.

The two sections are thus contrasted. The Northern States have reason to be very thankful for
their more equable system, for the motive power its reservoirs furnish, and for exemption from
disastrous floods, as well as from cyclones and tornadoes.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOSTON TEA-PARTY.

[This account of the Boston Tea-Party is taken, verbatim, from "The Boston Evening Post, Monday,
December 20, 1773. Thomas and John Fleet, at the Heart and Crown, in Cornhill, Messi'rs Printers."
It adds another link in the chain of evidence to prove that the patriots were disguised as
Indians.--ED.]

Having accidentally arrived at Boston upon a visit to a Friend the evening before the meeting
of the Body of the People on the 29th of November, curiosity, and the pressing invitations
of my most kind host, induced me to attend the Meeting. I must confess that I was most agreeably,
and I hope that I shall be forgiven by the People if I say so unexpectedly, entertained and
instructed by the regular, reasonable and sensible conduct and expression of the People there
collected, that I should rather have entertained an idea of being transported to the British
senate than to an adventurous and promiscuous assembly of People of a remote Colony, were I
not convinced by the genuine and uncorrupted integrity and manly hardihood of the Rhetoricians
of that assembly that they were not yet corrupted by venality or debauched by luxury.

The conduct of that wise and considerate body, in their several transactions, evidently tended
to preserve the property of the East India Company. I must confess I was very disagreeably
affected with the conduct of Mr. Hutchinson, their pensioned Governor, on the succeeding day,
who very unseasonably, and, as I am informed, very arbitrarily (not having the sanction of
law), framed and executed a mandate to disperse the People, which, in my oppinion, with a people
less prudent and temperate would have cost him his head. The Force of that body was directed
to effect the return of the Teas to Great Briton; much argument was expended. Much entreaty
was made use of to effect this desirable purpose. Mr. Rotch behaved, in my estimation, very
unexceptionably; his disposition was seemingly to comport with the desires of the People to
convey the Teas to the original proprietors. The Consignees have behaved like Scoundrels in
refusing to take the consignment, or indemnify the owner of the ship which conveyed this detestable
commodity to this port. Every possible step was taken to preserve this property. The People
being exasperated with the conduct of the administration in this affair, great pains were taken
and much policy exerted to procure a stated watch for this purpose.[A]

[Footnote A: This watch consisted of 24 to 34 Men, who served as volunteers 19 Days and 23 Hours.]

