I am very glad that I see Rome while it yet exists: before a great number of years are elapsed,
I question whether it will be worth seeing.  Between the ignorance and poverty of the present
Romans, every thing is neglected and falling to decay; the villas are entirely out of repair,
and the palaces so ill kept, that half the pictures are spoiled by damp.  At the villa Ludovisi
is a large oracular head of red marble, colossal, and with vast foramina for the eyes and mouth:
the man that showed the palace said it was un ritratto della famiglia?  The Cardinal Corsini
has so thoroughly pushed on the misery of Rome by impoverishing it, that there is no money
but paper to be seen.  He is reckoned to have amassed three millions of crowns.  You may judge
of' the affluence the nobility live in, when I assure you, that what the chief princes allow
for their own eating is a testoon a day; eighteen pence: there are some extend their expense
to five pauls, or half a crown: Cardinal Albani is called extravagant for laying out ten pauls
for his dinner and supper.  You may imagine they never have any entertainments: so far from
it, they never have any company.  The princesses and duchesses particularly lead the dismallest
of lives. Being the posterity of popes, though of worse families than the ancient nobility,
they expect greater respect than my ladies the countesses and marquises will pay them; consequently
they consort not, but mope in a vast palace with two mniserable tapers, and two or three monsignori,
whom they are forced to court and humour, that they may not be entirely deserted.  Sundays
they do issue forth in a most unwieldy coach to the Corso.

In short 'child, after sunset one passes one's time here very ill; and if I did not wish for
you in the mornings, it would be no compliment to tell you that I do in the evening.  Lord!
how many English I could change for you, and yet buy you wondrous cheap! And, then French and
Germans I could fling into the bargain by dozens.  Nations swarm here.  You will have a great
fat French cardinal garnished with thirty abb`es roll into the area of St. Peter's, gape, turn
short, and talk of the chapel of Versailles.  I heard one of them say t'other day, he had been
at the Capitale.  One asked of course how he liked it-.Oh! il y a assez de belles choses.

Tell Ashton I have received his letter, and will write next post but I am in a violent hurry
and have no more time; so Gray finishes this delicately.

NOT so delicate; nor indeed would his conscience suffer him to write to you, till he received
de vos nouvelles, if he had not the tail of another person's letter to use by way of evasion.
I sha'n't describe, as being in the only place in the world that deserves it which may seem
an odd reason-but they say as how it's fulsome, and every body does it (and I suppose every
body says the same thing); else I should tell'you a vast deal about the Coliseum, and the Conclave,
and the Capitol, and these matters. A-propos du Colis`ee, if you don't know what it is, the
Prince Borghese will be very capable of giving you some account of it, who told an Englishman
that asked what it was built for: "They say 'twas for Christians to fight with tigers in."
We are just come from adoring a great piece of the true cross, St. Longinus's spear, and St.
Veronica's handkerchief; all of which have been this evening exposed to view in St. Peter's.
In the same place, and on the same occasion last night, Walpole saw a poor creature naked to
the waist discipline himself with a scourge filled with iron prickles, till he made hii-nself
a raw doublet, that he took for red satin torn, and showing the skin through.  I should tell
you, that he fainted away three times at the sight, and I twice and a half at the repetition
of it.  All this is performed by the light of a vast fiery cross, composed of hundreds of little
crystal latmps, which appears through the great altar under the grand tribuna, as if hanging
by itself in the air.  All the confraternities of the city resort thither in solemn procession,
habited in linen frocks, girt with a cord, and their heads covered with a cowl all over, that
has only two holes before to see through.  Some of these are all black, others parti-coloured
and white: and with these masqueraders that vast church is filled, who are seen thumping their
breasts, and kissing the pavement with extreme devotion.  But methinks I am describing:-'tis
an ill habit; but this, like every thing else will wear off We have sent you our compliments
by a friend of yours, and correspondent in a corner, who seems a very agreeable man; one Mr.
Williams; I am sorry he staid so little a while in Rome.  I forget Porto-Bello (187)  all this
while; pray let us know where it is, and whether you or Ashton had any hand in the taking of'it.
Duty to the admiral.  Adieu! Ever yours,

T. GRAY.

(187) Porto-Bello, taken from the Spaniards by Admiral Vernon, with six ships only, On the
21st Nov. 1740.  By the articles of the capitulation, the town was not to be plundered, nor
the inhabitants molested in the smallest degree; and the governor and inhabitants expressed
themselves in the highest terms, when speaking of the humanity and generosity with which they
had been treated by the admiral and the officers of the squadron under his command.-E.

150 Letter 21 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Rome, April, 23, 1740, N. S.

As I have wrote you two such long letters lately, my dear Hal, I did not hurry myself to answer
your last; but choose to write to poor SelWyn (188) Upon his illness.  I pity you excessively
upon finding him in such a situation- what a shock it must have been to you!  He deserves so
much love from all that know him, and you owe him so much friendship, that I can scarce conceive
a greater shock.  I am very glad you did not write to me till he was out of danger; for this
great distance would have added to my pain, as I must have waited so long for another letter.
I charge you, don't let him relapse into balls: he does not love them, and, if you please,
your example may keep him out of them.  You are extremely pretty people to be dancing and trading
with French poulterers and pastry cooks, when a hard frost is starving half the nation, and
the Spanish war ought to be employing the other half.  We are much more public spirited here;
we live upon the public news, and triumph abundantly upon the taking Porto-Bello.  If you are
not entirely debauched with your balls, you must be pleased with an answer of Lord Harrington's
(189) to the governor of Rome.  He asked him what they had determined about the vessel that
the Spaniards took under the canon of Civita Vecchia, whether they had restored it to the English?
The governor said, they had done justice.  My lord replied, "If you had not, we should have'
done it ourselves."  Pray reverence our spirit, Lieutenant Hal.

Sir, MoscovitEO (190) is not a pretty woman, and she does sing ill; that's all.

My dear Harry, I must now tell you a little about myself, and answer your questions.  How I
like the inanimate part of Rome you will soon perceive at my arrival in England; I am far gone
in medals, lamps, idols, prints, etc." and all the small commodities to the purchase of which
I can attain; I would buy the Coliseum if I could: Judge.  My mornings are spent in the most
agreeable manner; my evenings ill enough.  Roman conversations are dreadful things! such untoward
mawkins as the princesses! and the princes are worse.  Then the whole city is littered with
French and German abb`es, who make up a dismal contrast with the inhabitants.  The conclave
is far from enlivening us; its secrets don't transpire.  I could give you names of this cardinal
and that, that are talked of, but each is contradicted the next hour. I was there t'other day
to visit one of them, and one of the most agreeable, Alexander Albani.  I had the opportunity
of two cardinals making their entry: upon that occasion the gate is unlocked, and their eminences
come to talk to their acquaintance over the threshold.  I have received great civilities from
him I named to you, and I wish he were out, that I might receive greater: a friend of his does
the honours of Rome for him; but you know that it is unpleasant to visit by proxy.  Cardinal
Delei, the object of the Corsini faction, is dying; the hot weather will probably despatch
half a dozen more. Not that it is hot yet; I am now writing to you by my fireside.

Harry, you saw Lord Deskfoord (191) at Geneva; don't you like him?  He is a mighty sensible
man.  There are few young people have so good understandings.  He is mighty grave, and so are
you; but you can both be pleasant when you have a mind.  Indeed, one can make you pleasant,
but his solemn Scotchery is a little formidable: before you 1 can play the fool from morning
to night, courageously.  Good night.  I have other letters to write, and must finish this.
Yours ever.

(188) John Selwyn, elder brother of George Augustus Selwyn.  He died about 1750.

(189)William Marquis of Hartington.  He succeeded his father as fourth Duke of Devonshire in
1755.-E.

(190) Notwithstanding she laboured under such disadvantages-and want of beauty and want of
talent are serious ones to a cantatrice,-it will be seen from Walpole's letter to Mann, 5th
Nov. 1741, that the Moscovita, on her arrival here, received six hundred guineas for the season,
instead of four hundred, the salary previously given to the , second woman;" and became, moreover,
the mistress of Lord Middlesex, the director of the opera.-E.

(191) Son of the Earl of Findlater and Seafield, who succeeded his father in 1764, and died
in 1770.-E.

152 Letter 22 To Richard West, Esq. Rome, May 7, 1740, N. S.

Dear West, 'Twould be quite rude and unpardonable in one not to wish you joy upon the great
conquests that you are all committing all over the world.  We heard the news last night from
Naples, that Admiral Haddock (192) had met the Spanish convoy going to Majorca, and taken it
all, all; three thousand men, three colonels, and a Spanish grandee.  We conclude it is true,
for the Neapolitan Majesty mentioned it at dinner.  We are going thither in about a week, to
wish him joy of it too.  'Tis with some apprehensions we go too, of having a pope chosen in
the interim: that would be cruel, you know.  But, thank our stars, there is no great probability
of it.  ' Feuds and contentions run high among the eminences.  A notable one happened this
week.  Cardinal Zinzendorff and two more had given their votes for the general of the Capucins:
he is of the Barberini family, not a cardinal, but a worthy man.  Not effecting any thing,
Zinzendorff voted for Coscia, and declared it publicly. Cardinal Petra reproved him; but the
German replied, he thought Coscia as fit to be pope as any of them.  It seems, his pique to
the whole body is, their having denied a daily admission of a pig into the conclave for his
eminence's use who, being much troubled with the gout, was ordered by his mother to bathe his
leg in pig's blood every morning.

Who should have a vote t other day but the Cardinalino of Toledo!  Were he older, the Queen
of Spain might possibly procure more than one for him, though scarcely enough.

Well, but we won't talk Politics: shall we talk antiquities? Gray and I discovered a considerable
curiosity lately.  In an unfrequented quarter of the Colonna garden lie two immense fragments
of marble, formerly part of a frieze to some building; 'tis not known of what.  They are of
Parian marble: which may give one some idea of the magnificence of the rest of the building
for these pieces were at the very top.  Upon inquiry, we were told they had been measured by
an architect, who declared they were larger than any member of St. Peter's.  The length of
one of the pieces is above sixteen feet.  They were formerly sold to a stonecutter for five
thousand crowns, but Clement XI. would not permit them to be sawed, annulled the bargain, and
laid a penalty of twelve thousand crowns upon the family if they parted with them.  I think
it was a right judged thing.  Is it not amazing, that so vast a structure should not be known
of, or that it should be so entirely destroyed?  But indeed at Rome this is a common surprise;
for, by the remains one sees of the Roman grandeur in their structures, 'tis evident that there
must have been more pains taken to destroy those piles than to raise them. They are more demolished
than any time or chance could have effected.  I am persuaded that in an hundred years Rome
will not be worth seeing; 'tis less so now than one would believe.  All the public pictures
are decayed or decaying; the few ruins cannot last long; and the statues and private collections
must be sold, from the great poverty of the families.  There are now selling no less than three
of the principal collections, the Barberini, the Sacchetti, and Ottoboni: the latter belonged
to the cardinal who died in the conclave.  I must give you an instance of his generosity, or
rather ostentation.  When Lord Carlisle was here last year, who is a great virtuoso, he asked
leave to see the cardinal's collection of cameos and intaglios.  Ottoboni gave leave, and ordered
the person who showed them to observe which my lord admired most.  My lord admired many: they
were all sent him the next morning. He sent the cardinal back a fine gold repeater; who returned
him an acate snuff box, and more cameoes of ten times the value.  Voila qui est fini!  Had
my lord produced more golden repeaters, it would have been begging more cameos. Adieu, my dear
West! You see I write often and much, as you desired it.  Do answer one now and then, with
any little job that is done in England.  Good night.  Yours ever.

(192) This report, which proved unfounded, was grounded on the fact, that on the 18th of April
his Majesty's ships Lenox, Kent, and Orford, commanded by Captains Mayne, Durell, and Lord
Augustus Fitzroy, part of Admiral Balchen's squadron being on a cruise about forty leagues
to the westward of Cape Finisterre, fell in with the Princessa, esteemed the finest ship of
war in the Spanish navy, and captured her, after an engagement of five hours.-E.

(193) Henry fourth Earl of Carlisle, grandfather of the present Earl. (195)  Above it has since
been built Portici, about three miles from Naples, where the King has a villa.

(195) Some excavations were made at Herculaneum in 1709 by the Prince d'Elbeuf; but, thirty
years elapsed after the prince had been forbidden to dig further, before any more notice was
taken of them.  In December 1738 the King of the two Sicilies was at Portici, and gave orders
for the prosecution of these subterranean labours.  There had been an excavation in the time
of the Romans; and another so lately as 1689.  In a letter from Gray to his mother, he describes
their visits to Herculaneum; but, not mentioning it by name, Mason supposed it had not then
been discovered to be that city.  It is evident, from this observation of Walpole, that Mason's
opinion was unfounded.-E.

  (196) Pompei a was not then discovered.

155 Letter 24 To The Hon.  H. S. Conway.

You see how glad I am to have reasons for not returning; I wish I had no better. People talk
of Fortune's wheel, that is always rolling: my Lord Hardwicke has overtaken her wheel, and
rolled with it.  I perceive Miss Jenny (207) would not venture to Ireland, nor stray so far
from London; I am glad I shall always know where to find her within threescore miles.  I must
say a word to my lord, which, Harry, be sure you don't read. ["My dear lord, I don't love troubling
you with letters, because I know you don't love the trouble of answering them; not that I should
insist on that ceremony, but I hate to burthen any one's conscience.  Your brother tells me
he is to stand member of parliament: without telling me so, I am sure he owes it to you.  I
am sure you will not repent setting him up; nor will he be ungrateful to a brother who deserves
so much, and whose least merit is not the knowing how to employ so great a fortune."]

There, Harry,-I have done.  Don't suspect me: I have said no ill of you behind your back. 
Make my best compliments to Miss Conway. (208)

I thoght I had done, and lo, I had forgot to tell you, that who d'ye think is here?-Even Mr.
More! our Rheims Mr. More!  the fortification, hornwork, ravelin, bastion Mr. More! which is
very pleasant sure.  At the end of the eighth side, I think I need make no excuse for leaving
off; but I am going to write to Selwyn, and to the lady of the mountain; from whom I have had
a very kind letter.  She has at last received the Chantilly brass. Good night: write to me
from one end of the world to t'other.  Yours ever.

(197) A large old house, two miles from the seat of Sir Arthur Acheson, near Market-hill, and
the scene of Swift's humorous poem, "The Grand Question debated, whether Hamilton's Bawn should
be turned into a barrack or a malt- house."-E.

(198) Afterwards Sir Horace Mann.  He was at this time resident at Florence from George II.

(199) Henrietta Louisa, wife of Thomas Earl of Pomfret. [She was the daughter of John Lord
Jefferies, Baron of Wem.  Lady Pomfret, who was the friend and correspondent of Frances Duchess
of Somerset, retired from the court upon the death of Queen Caroline in 1737.]

(200) Afterwards married to John Lord Carteret, who became Earl of Granville on the death of
his mother in the year 1744.

(201) Lady Charlotte Fermor married, in August 1746, William Finch, brother of Daniel seventh
Earl of Winchelsea, by whom she had issue a son, George, who, on the death of his uncle, in
1769, succeeded to the earldom.  Her ladyship was governess to the children of George III.,
and highly esteemcd by him and his royal consort.-E.

(202) The Princess Craon was the favourite mistress of Leopold the last Duke of Lorrain, who
married her to M. de Beauveau, and prevailed on the Emperor to make him a prince of the empire.
They at this time resided at Florence, where Prince Craon was at the head of the council of
regency.

(203) This was a party ballad (written by Glover, though by some at the time ascribed to Lord
Bath,) on the taking of Porto-Bello by Admiral Vernon.  "The case of Hosier," says Bishop Percy,
in his admirable Reliques, vol. ii. p. 382, where the song is preserved, "The case of Hosier,
which is here so pathetically represented, was briefly this.  In April 1726, that commander
was sent with a strong fleet into the Spanish West Indies to block up the galleons in the port
of that country, or, should they presume to come out, to seize and carry them to England: he
accordingly arrived at Bastimentos, near Porto-Bello; but, being employed rather to overawe
than attack the Spaniards, with whom it was probably not our interest to go to war, he continued
long inactive on this station.  He afterwards removed to Carthagena, and remained crusing in
those seas, till the greater part of his men perished deplorably by the diseases of that unhealthy
Climate.  This brave man, seeing his best officers and men thus daily swept away, his ships
exposed to inevitable destruction, and himself made the sport of the enemy, is said to have
died of a broken heart.-E.

