From these reflections it is patent that this large patience, this Oriental calm, had not yet
come to Mr. Richard Smith of New York, who felt a certain irritation somewhat modified by amusement
as he sat looking out of the car window at an apathetic brakeman who languidly gazed down the
shining rails.  For no cause that could be guessed, the train had now been resting nearly half
an hour.  The colored porter had ceased to perform prodigies by shutting between the upper
berth and the wall three times as many blankets, mattresses, board partitions, and other paraphernalia
as one would have thought the space could possibly contain, and was sitting in the corner section
reflectively chewing a toothpick.  There appeared to be a distressing lack of interest in the
train on the part of all its proximate officials; no one seemed ready to alter the status quo.

Only a few miles to the eastward the roofs of Boston and the golden dome of the Capitol glittered
in the morning sun, and there were the bright rails stretching clean and straight up to the
very gates of the city.  Railroading was a silly business anyway, thought Smith.  An express
train should be consistent, and not suddenly decide to become a landmark instead of a mobile
and dynamic agent.  He almost wished he had taken his ticket by the Fall River boat--as he
probably would have done had he been a Bostonian.

"Without reference to its political aspect," he reflected, "I believe strongly in water.  I
might have been deeply disturbed if there had been a ground swell or a cross sea going around
Point Judith, but I wouldn't have been threatened with approaching senile decay en route."

Smith was from New York.  The elderly Bostonian who shared his section had thought so from
the first.  He had guessed it when Smith took out for the second time his watch and replaced
it with a snap; he had felt his belief strengthened when his fellow traveler raised the sash
and looked impatiently up the idle track; and he had dismissed all doubt when Smith, conversing
with the apathetic brakeman, crisply indicated his desire to return from a study of still life
to the moving picture show for which he had paid admission.  The elderly Bostonian had observed
many New Yorkers, but it had never ceased to be a source of surprise to him why they all should
be so incessantly restless with an electric anxiety to be getting somewhere else.  To his own
thinking one place was very much the same as another,--with the exception of Boston,--and a
comfortable inertia was by no means to be condemned.  If people were waiting for one, and one
didn't appear, they merely waited a little longer--that was all.  If eternity was really eternity,
there was exactly as much time coming as had passed.  In any event no well-regulated New England
mind would permit itself to become disturbed over so small a matter.

Smith, guessing perhaps something of this from his companion's placid face, felt a momentary
embarrassment at his own impatience.

"I've an engagement at ten o'clock," he remarked, somewhat apologetically, to his conservative
neighbor.  "Do you suppose this train is going to let me keep it?"

The gentleman addressed cautiously expressed the opinion that if no further malign influences
were felt, and the train were presently to start, the remainder of the journey would occupy
comparatively little time.

And so in due course it came to pass as the elderly Bostonian had predicted, clearly proving--if
Smith had been open to accept proof--that the Oriental method of reasoning is the most comfortable,
whatever may be said of its efficiency.  He had left home at eleven on the night before, and
he arrived at the offices of Silas Osgood and Company, 175 Kilby Street, at exactly half an
hour before eleven in the morning.

The exercise of walking up from the South Station, although the walk was a short one, had wholly
dispelled the irritation of the delay, so that his smile was as genuine as ever when Mr. Silas
Osgood held out his courtly hand in welcome  It would have been a very bitter mood that could
have withstood the Bostonian's greeting.

"We were looking for you a little earlier in the morning," he said, when the first greetings
were over.  "You come so seldom nowadays that we feel you ought to come as early as possible."

Smith laughed.

"If you'd said that to me when I had been waiting two hours somewhere just the other side of
North, East, West, or South Newton, I would have probably snarled like a dyspeptic terrier.
Now, seeing you, sir, I can blandly reply that I came via Springfield and that the train was
a trifle late."

"Exceedingly courteous, I am sure, for one not a native," agreed the other, smiling.  "I am
advised that the train has been known to be delayed."

"Well, I'm here now, anyway," Smith rejoined, "and very glad to be.  It must be six weeks since
I saw the good old gilded dome on the hill, and six weeks seems a long time--or would, if they
didn't keep me pretty busy at the other end."

The two men were by this time in Mr. Osgood's private office, and the closing door shut out
the click of typewriters and the other sounds of the larger room outside.  As Mr. Osgood seated
himself a trifle stiffly in his wide desk chair, Smith looked at him affectionately.  The reflection
came into his mind that the old gentleman was just a little older than when they had last met,
and the thought gave a pang.

Silas Osgood was nearing his seventieth year.  A long life of kindly and gentle thinking, of
clean and correct living, had left him at this age as clear-eyed and direct of gaze as a child,
but the veins showed blue in the rather frail hands, and the face was seamed with tiny wrinkles.
Mr. Osgood had been in business in the fire insurance world of Boston for almost half a century.
He was as well known as the very pavement of Kilby Street, that great local artery of insurance
life, and the pulse of that life beat in him as strongly as his own.

To be an insurance man--and by that is meant primarily a fire insurance man--is in New England
no mean or casual thing.  South, West, in the newer and more open lands, where traditions are
fewer and there is less time for the dignities and observance of the amenities of commerce,
fire insurance takes its chance with a thousand other roads to an honest dollar.  If a Western
lawyer has a few spare hours, he hangs out an insurance sign and between briefs he or his clerk
writes policies. The cashier of the Farmers' State Bank in the prairie town ekes out his small
salary with the commissions he receives as agent for a few companies.  If a grist-mill owner
or a storekeeper has a busy corner of two Southern streets where passers-by congregate on market
day, he gets the representation of a fire company or two, and from time to time sends in a
risk to the head office, whose underwriters go nearly frantic in endeavoring to decipher the
hidden truth in the dusty reports of these well-intentioned amateurs.

But it is not so in New England.  In New England fire insurance reaches its proudest estate.
It is a profession, and to its true votaries almost a religion.  Its sons have, figuratively
speaking, been born with a rate book in one hand and a blank proof-of-loss clutched tightly
in the other.  And in the mouth a silver spoon or not, as the case might be, but in any event
a conclusive argument for the superior loss-paying ability and liberality in adjustment of
the companies they respectively represent.  They are fire insurance men by birth, education,
and tradition--they and their fathers before them.  Four generations back, Silas Osgood's family
had been supported by the staid old English public's fear of fire.  Three generations in Massachusetts
had been similarly preserved from the pangs of hunger.  Likenesses of all four were hanging
on the wall of Mr. Osgood's office; as to identity the first two were highly questionable,
but their uniforms in the old prints showed up fresh and bright.  In those old days gentlemen
only, men of education and station, whose judgment and courage were beyond question, were intrusted
with the responsibility of fighting the flames.  It is hard to say why this important and exciting
work should no longer attract the same sort of men to its service.

Hanging beside the four generations were the commissions of the fire companies locally represented
in the Osgood office.  Stout old companies they were, too, for the most part; one of the older
ones was well in the second century of its triumph over fire and the fear of fire and the ashes
thereof; this was a foreign company which Osgood held for old sake's sake.  The other commissions
bore American signatures, most of them well known and well esteemed.  On the wall right above
where Smith sat was the gold seal of his own company, the Guardian, and against the seal the
inexplicable hieroglyph which served Mr. James Wintermuth for his presidential signature. 
Then there was the great white sheet with the black border which set forth to all the world
by these presents that Silas Osgood and Company were the duly accredited agents of the Atlantic
Fire Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut.  The narrow placque of the old Birmingham
Indemnity of Birmingham, England, looked like a calling card beside the Atlantic's flamboyant
placard.

Smith, seeing Mr. Osgood's look fixed for a moment on the parchment above his head, said inquiringly,
"How long is it that you have represented the Guardian in Boston?"

The older man smiled reflectively and turned his eyeglass in his hand as he spoke.

"It was the year after the big fire when I first took the Guardian into my office.  You are
a close enough student of the game to know that that was just about forty years ago."

Smith nodded.

"Before Richard Smith was born.  But I remember the date.  Who appointed you as agent?"

Mr. Osgood pointed to the scrawl at the foot of the framed commission.

"My old friend, James Wintermuth," he said.  He paused a moment.  "I can almost see him now
as he looked when he came to call on me--in the old office farther down the street.  Tall and
quick-tempered, and you can imagine how strong in the fingers he was in those days!  I recall
I used to keep my glove on when I shook hands with him.  He was a fine young chap, was James.
Perhaps a little too hasty for us conservative New Englanders, but--"  He broke off, a half-smile
on his lips.

Smith remained silent.

"It's a fault you young New Yorkers are apt to have," the Bostonian presently went on.  "Most
of you are a trifle aggressive for us over here--just a bit radical."

The other laughed good-naturedly.

"I myself should say that my honored chief had lived down his radicalism long ago.  It's lucky
for Silas Osgood and Company that there is a little of it left somewhere in the company, for
the President convalesced from his attack of radicalism in eighteen eighty-five or thereabouts
and has never been threatened with a relapse or a recurrence.  You may criticize us, sir, but
you will have to admit that unless there was a little radicalism in my own department, the
Guardian would never have accepted the lines and the liability in this down-town district that
you have sent us and are sending us now.  I hope I'm conservative enough, but with all due
respect to Mr. Wintermuth, what he calls conservatism often strikes me as dry rot."

He stopped, laughing again.

"This is not an explosive protest," he said.  "It is merely the result of having traveled on
the conservative Boston and Manhattan, which would turn a phlegmatic Pennsylvania Dutchman
into a Nihilist."

Then both men laughed together, and turned their attention to the business before them, Mr.
Osgood's pale silver head close beside Smith's brown one.

In the outer office typewriters clicked, clients hung over desks, and the traffic of a busy
morning proceeded.  It was just about twelve o'clock when the clerks nearest the door stopped
their work for a brief minute to look up and smile, for Charles Wilkinson, whenever he came
to that office, timed his arrival with a skill that was perfectly understood by all.  Mr. Wilkinson
beamed blandly over the map counter, and still more blandly inquired whether Mr. Bennington
Cole was in. Mr. Cole was, it appeared, at his desk, and Mr. Wilkinson required no one to show
him the way.

"Hello, Benny," he said cheerfully.  "You hardly expected to see me here to-day, did you? 
But I'm the early bird, all right.  The excessively shy and unseasonable habits of the matinal
worm never appealed favorably to me, but we have to have him once in a while, so here I am.
You know what for, don't you?  Or do you?"

Cole surveyed his visitor dispassionately.

"I fancy I can guess," he replied.

"No, upon my word," the other rejoined with spirit; "you do me a grave injustice, Benny.  I've
already had luncheon--that is to say, I've just had breakfast.  You can more fully appreciate
the significance of my call when I tell you that I came to you directly from the breakfast
table.  No, sir, the object of this visit is strictly business."

Bennington Cole gravely buttoned up his coat and thrust both hands into his pockets.

Mr. Wilkinson smiled buoyantly.

"Benny, you've a delightful surprise in store for you," he said. "Having astonished you by
telling you that I was not open to an invitation to lunch, I am going to follow it up by assuring
you that I do not intend to suggest the extension of even the paltriest of pecuniary accommodations.
I am after bigger game."

Cole's suspicion melted into a semblance of interest.

"You don't mean--" he began.

"Yes, but I do, though," said the other.  "That's the precise meaning of this pious pilgrimage
at this ungodly hour.  I want to find out where you keep that worm.  Yesterday afternoon, at
the Hurds', you had an idea.  You know you did--you can't conceal it from my piercing sense
of penetration.  And your idea had the ring of real currency when you accidentally dropped
it.  So I'm here to collaborate, that's all."

Mr. Osgood's junior partner looked around at the clerks, who hastily resumed their interrupted
duties.

"Come in here," he said to the visitor, and he led his guest into an inner office next to Mr.
Osgood's own, and closed the door behind him.

"I did have an idea," he conceded, as he motioned Wilkinson to a seat, "and it was an idea
that had several things to recommend it.  But it was a business proposition, and if you will
pardon my saying so, Charlie, you are not the kind of a collaborator I would choose, if I were
doing the choosing."

"But you're not, my boy," replied the other, unabashed.  "I'm doing the choosing, myself, and
I choose you.  Your idea was palpably based on separating my barnacled connection from some
of the ghastly pile of glittering gold that he has taken, five cents at a time, from the widows,
orphans, blind, halt, and lame who patronize his trolley lines. Elucidate forthwith, Benny--in
the vernacular, unbelt.  I am listening."

Cole was reflecting.  No one knew better than he how little regard John M. Hurd really felt
for this mercurial youth.  Yet Mr. Hurd had resisted with entire success all other means of
approach.  After all, family connections counted for something, even with the retentive old
trolley magnate.  So when at last he spoke, it was with the determination to show a part of
his hand, at least, to Wilkinson.

"Mr. Hurd is President of the Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction Company," he began.

His visitor smiled affably.

"There is a popular impression to that effect," he admitted.

"Silas Osgood and Company and--" he paused a moment--"Bennington Cole are in the fire insurance
business.  The Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction Company carries no fire insurance on
any of its properties. Well," he said sharply, "do you begin to see how you come into this?"

"See what?" asked Wilkinson, blankly.

"The insurable value of the various properties of the company must amount to six or eight million
dollars.  The average rate on those properties would probably be about seventy-five cents per
hundred dollars a year for insurance.  That would make a premium of say fifty thousand dollars
per annum.  The commission to the insurance broker who handled that line--who could secure
it and control it--would be ten per cent of fifty thousand, or five thousand dollars.  Half
that amount--I am doing these sums for you so that you can catch the idea--would be twenty-five
hundred--without any risk to yourself and every year of your life.  Do you think the game worth
a try?"

Wilkinson sat up with eager interest.

"Why half?  Why not both halves?" he inquired.

The other man spread his hands before him in a gesture as well recognized among elder peoples
as it is to-day.

"Naturally I would expect half for originating the scheme, drawing up the schedule in its proper
form, securing the lowest rate, and placing the line with the various companies.  You couldn't
do those things, you know; it takes knowledge of the business."

His visitor once more sat back in his chair.

"And all I have to do is to get Uncle John to take out an insurance policy on his trolley cars!
A mere nothing!  I'm astonished that you offer me so much as half--for so simple an office.
Really, Benny, you are losing your faculties.  I can almost see them evaporating.  Yes, the
time will come when some one of our mutual friends, driving past the Meadow Creek Paresis Club,
where Dr. McMullen receives certain amiable but not entirely responsible persons, will behold
you hanging cheerily by one hand from the pergola roof with a vacuous smile on your twitching
lips, and will say to me sadly: 'Charlie, you knew him, didn't you, in the old days, when his
mind was as keen and bright as an editor's knife?'  And with chastened melancholy I will respond:
'Yes, George, it is true.  And moreover I was with him on the day when his mind commenced to
give way.  The day he offered me a full half of the spoils of my own--what do you call it?--oh,
yes, arbalest.'"

Cole laughed, and not altogether pleasantly.

"Well, if you can get John M. to carry insurance, I'll see that you are not disappointed in
the terms of our agreement."

"Do you know, Benny, somehow I'd rather have it in writing.  Suppose we say one third to you
and two thirds to me.  After all, I need the money, you see, and you don't."

"Aren't we counting our chickens a good while before they have emerged from the incubator?"
the other suggested.

"Very likely," Wilkinson readily agreed.  "But I find that if I ever indulge in that diverting
form of mathematics it has to be before the hatching.  The little yellow rascals never stay
around long enough afterward to permit themselves to be counted."

Bennington Cole slowly picked up a pen and drew toward him a sheet of paper; more slowly still
he wrote what he described as a gentleman's agreement between Charles Wilkinson and himself.
That young man sat back and studied the face of his associate with shrewd, half-shut eyes.
Presently Cole stopped writing.

"I fancy this will serve," he said.

"Read the Machiavellian document," demanded Wilkinson, placidly.  And Cole read.

"'Agreement between Bennington Cole and Charles Wilkinson.  Said Bennington Cole agrees that
if said Charles Wilkinson shall secure control of the fire insurance of the Massachusetts Light,
Heat, and Traction Company, said Bennington Cole shall handle such account to the best of his
ability and shall pay to said Charles Wilkinson two thirds of all brokerage commissions received
thereby.'"

Said Charles Wilkinson reached for the paper.

"It seems to be in order," he said presently.  "Sign it and date it, Benny, and bring in old
Stewpan there to witness it.  This is a business proposition, and I know how such things ought
to be handled."

It was duly signed and duly witnessed by the aged and anemic cashier of the Osgood office,
and Mr. Wilkinson placed it carefully in his pocketbook.  Then he rose with alacrity.

"I'm sure you'll pardon my insistence on this little technicality," he said smoothly; "but
you business men, you professional men, are so shrewd, so very alert and quick of mind, that
a comparative novice like myself is mere wax in your strong, deft fingers. . . .  And now to
cipher out some way to secure the golden apple which hangs so close to hand, yet so very dragon-guarded."

"That's your work," rejoined Cole.  "I won't attempt to offer suggestions.  Nearly every insurance
broker in Boston has at one time or another had a go at John M. Hurd.  Boring him to death
has been unsuccessfully tried several times, but as you are in the family, you may of course
have superior facilities to any of your predecessors. Blackmail might accomplish something.
But really I can't help you any, Charlie.  If I had any plan, I'd deserve to hang from your
friend's pergola roof for giving it to you instead of using it myself.  I guess this is where
you begin to do a little hard thinking."

"What marvelous incisiveness you possess, Benny," his friend commented. "It is an uplift to
hear you.  But you see thinking is quite in my line.  Any one who has had to think as hard
as I how to keep the lean white wolf of the Green Mountains--or vice versa--from my shifting
doorstep, certainly need not tremble before the necessity of thought. But I have learned this--when
I want to get something I don't know how to get, I invariably regard it the height of sapience
to go and ask some one who does know how.  In this case I can ask without going, for the very
man is here at hand."

"I've already told you that I can assist you no further," said Cole. "I've given you the idea.
You'll have to do the rest, yourself."

"Oh, I wasn't thinking of you," Wilkinson rejoined coolly.  "I meant a man of perhaps not better,
but certainly rather broader, experience.  I shall go for advice to Mr. Silas Osgood."

And he opened the door and disappeared through it before Cole could voice a protest.  He would
have much preferred that the senior partner know nothing of the scheme unless it should take
concrete form by its success.  If Wilkinson by any chance should secure the traction company's
insurance, the business should properly be handled by the firm of Silas Osgood and Company,
and not by Bennington Cole individually.  However, the mischief was already done, for he could
hear Charles' cheerful voice greeting the two men in the other office. Rather reluctantly he
followed.

He found Wilkinson sitting easily on the arm of a chair, talking rapidly and confidentially
to Mr. Osgood, who regarded him with indulgence but wonder, as one who might come suddenly
on a charming lady lunatic.

"I don't think I know your friend," Wilkinson was saying, sotto voce, in Mr. Osgood's ear.
Then, as Cole entered, Smith rose to shake hands, and the introduction was made.

"Mr. Smith, General Agent of the Guardian of New York--Mr. Wilkinson."

"Delighted to meet you, Mr. Smith." He turned to the elder man.  "Mr. Osgood, I've come to
see you on a matter of business--an important matter upon which I wish your advice.  And I
not only wish it, but I need it, as you will appreciate when I tell you that my occupation
for the next few weeks, months, or years--as the case may be--will consist in endeavoring to
extort a little money from Mr. John M. Hurd."

Cole coughed.

"A most expressive cough, my dear Benny, and the interpretation is clearly that there is no
innovation about such a battle of wits.  But, Mr. Osgood, there is a difference."  He looked
inquiringly at Cole. "By the way, is there any reason why we should not speak freely before
Mr. Smith?"

"Mr. Smith is a Company man; he will do nothing to disturb your plan," said Cole.  "Go ahead,
now you've started."

Wilkinson proceeded.

"I am about to take charge of insuring all the properties of the Massachusetts Light, Heat,
and Traction Company, John M. Hurd, President," he announced.

Mr. Osgood permitted himself a slight smile.

"My dear young friend," he said, "you have given yourself a life sentence at hard labor."

Wilkinson sat down.

"All the better reason why I need assistance," he rejoined.  "I need everybody's assistance.
But only to get started.  When I'm started properly I can look after myself."

"My boy," said the veteran underwriter, kindly, "I have known John M. Hurd since he was thirty
years old.  I knew him when what is now the Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction Company
consisted of two cars, four horses, and three miles of single track.  And he never carried
a dollar of insurance then, and he never has since.  I have seen the brightest brokers in Boston
go into his office and come out in anywhere from three to twenty minutes; and not one of them
ever got anything at all for his pains.  Better give it up, my boy; you'll save yourself more
or less trouble, and the result will be the same."

The young man laughed.

"There's one point of dissimilarity that I see already," he replied. "The time of the brightest
brokers in Boston is valuable; mine is not. Really, you're not very encouraging, but I didn't
expect you to be.  I know my step-uncle, and I'm prepared for a stiff and extensive campaign.
All I'm asking for is a detonator--something to start the action, you know, or something novel
in the way of an explosive. Perhaps an adaptation of one of those grenades that the Chinese
pirates throw when they want to drive their victims suffocating into the sea. I realize that
there isn't much use engaging Uncle John with ordinary Christian weapons; he's practically
bomb-proof."

"I am afraid," said Mr. Osgood, slowly, "that I am not very expert in the manufacture of noxious
piratical chemicals.  You will have to seek your inspiration elsewhere."

Smith turned to Wilkinson.  Heretofore the representative of the Guardian had taken no part
in the conversation.

"Would you mind stating, without quite so many figures of speech, just what you want?" he asked
quietly.

"Certainly.  What I want is something, some handle which will get me John M. Hurd's attention
just long enough to make him listen to me.  If I can get him to listen, I stand a chance."

"You say he carries no fire insurance on any of the trolley properties?" the New Yorker inquired
thoughtfully.

"No," replied Mr. Osgood.  "He has a small insurance fund--perhaps thirty or forty thousand
dollars.  He pays into this each year a part of what his insurance would cost him, and out
of this fund is paid what losses the company sustains.  And we must confess that so far the
scheme has worked well.  His losses have been much less than he would have paid in premiums
to the companies."

"A fund--yes.  That is all well and good, unless there is a great congestion of value at some
single point, or at a very few points. Tell me, how much value is there in that main car barn
on Pemberton Street--the new one next to the power plant?"

"Probably over a half a million dollars--at night, when the cars are all there," said Cole.

"And with the power house almost a million, then?"

"Almost," Cole agreed.

Smith rose and walked over to the window; the others watched him in silence.  "What kind of
people hold the stock of the traction company?" he asked suddenly.

"I fancy Mr. Hurd himself swings a very big block," Cole answered. "And his directors have
a good deal.  It's easily carried--the banks up here will loan on it almost up to the market
value."

Smith still looked thoughtfully out the window.

"And I presume the directors and other stockholders take advantage of that fact?" he inquired.

"Oh, yes," Mr. Osgood replied.  "We have a lot of it as collateral for loans in the Charlestown
Trust Company, of which I am a director."

"And is it actively traded in on the Exchange?" the New Yorker continued.

"No.  Odd lots mainly, from time to time.  But the price is remarkably steady.  It is regarded
about as safe as a bond."

Smith returned to the seated group.

"Gentlemen," he said, "banks do strange things at times, but they are usually grateful for
information when it is of value.  They have probably never taken the trouble to find out whether
the Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction was properly protected against a fire--by which
I mean a big fire; they probably have assumed that it was.  If it were to become known in financial
circles that their insurance fund was forty thousand dollars and that they stood to lose one
million dollars if there were a big fire in Pemberton Street to-night, how many of those borrowers
do you think would be asked by the banks to reduce their loans or to substitute in part other
collateral of a less speculative sort?  It might even affect the price of the stock on the
Exchange rather unfortunately.  Some of those directors might have an unpleasant half-hour."

He paused.  Wilkinson's face expressed the most eager attention.

"And I want to say to you, gentlemen, that a general fire in the congested section of this
city is in my opinion not so improbable a thing as you Bostonians imagine.  The conflagration
hazard in Boston's congested district is not a thing one can exactly calculate, but it would
be difficult to overestimate its gravity. . . .  There's your grenade, Mr. Wilkinson."

Wilkinson leaped to his feet.

"I see it," he cried.  "Leave it to me.  It's as good as done.  It's merely a question of time."

"What are you going to do?" asked Cole, curiously.

Wilkinson made for the door.

"Do?" he cried.  "Do?  I'm going to load the grenade.  Gentlemen, good morning."

CHAPTER III

Isabel Hurd sat bolt upright on the stiff and blackly austere divan, and surveyed her friend
with mingled surprise and concern.

"My dear Helen," she protested, "to my certain knowledge you have seen your cousin only twice
this summer, and surely it would not hurt you to go to her reception."

"I disagree with you," replied Miss Maitland.  "If there is any equity in social obligations,
it would decidedly hurt me."

"Why, what do you mean?"

"Well, just because I take the trouble to watch a certain person select her wall paper, is
that any valid reason why I should shed upon that person the effulgence of my eyes?  Not that
I am a sufferer from effulgent eyes and need the services of an oculist--I'm only quoting--but
it seems to me awfully one-sided.  I hate Cousin Henrietta's receptions--dull, poky affairs--where
Mrs. Parkinson weeps into her teacup and the Misses Pyncheon are apt--most apt--to recite a
little Browning.  I detest receptions, anyway, and if I have to go to any more of them I shall
scream.  If you suggest my going to any, Isabel, I shall scream at you!"

Miss Hurd smiled a superior smile.

"Why, my dear child," she said, "you know perfectly well that I don't care an atom whether
you go to your Cousin Henrietta's or not.  But I never knew you were so down on receptions.
I hope you haven't forgotten that next month you promised to receive with mother and me at ours."

Helen wavered a moment, then obstinately continued.

"Yes, I have.  I've forgotten it absolutely.  If I ever said it, I must have been suffering
from febrile lesions,--if there are any such things,--and I hereby wave the promise aside with
the magnificent gesture of a satrap ordering somebody to execution."

Isabel no longer smiled; her answer was a little acid and very distinct.

"Of course, if you don't want to help mother and me, no one will compel you to, my dear.  Do
precisely as you like; do not think of us in any way--we can easily get some one else."

Miss Maitland looked quickly up, and saw that there was a suspicious brightness in her friend's
eyes, whereby she understood that Isabel felt actually hurt by her diatribe against the social
dragon and his works--at least when his works were interwoven with Isabel's own concerns. 
And because Helen was tender-hearted under all her social armor, and because she and Isabel
were fonder of one another than one would have thought possible, considering the diversities
between them, she was smitten with swift compunction and hastily withdrew so much of her protest
as touched her friend.

"You are a silly person, but a dear," she said contritely; "and I didn't really mean what I
said about receptions--at least, about yours. But I meant every word about Cousin Henrietta."

A slight shadow of doubt lingered in Isabel's eyes, and Helen, seeing it, crossed quickly over
to the divan and kissed her lightly on the cheek.  The olive branch was accepted and peace
restored.

"All the same," Miss Maitland presently went on, "there are times, I confess, when I get so
tired of some of the things I do that I feel as though I couldn't possibly do them again."

Isabel nodded understandingly.

"Is there anything in particular that you are so tired of?" she insinuatingly asked.

"Yes, Miss Portia, there is.  And furthermore you know as well as I do what that something is."

"I would hesitate to mention it," said Miss Hurd, with a smile.

"Well, I wouldn't.  On the contrary I freely and unqualifiedly announce that I am excessively
tired of a thousand things, most of which begin with P.  I am tired of portraits and portrait
painters; I am tired of posing and of poseurs; I am tired of palettes and paint; I am tired
of--" she stopped, breaking off a little suddenly.

"Well, complete it.  You are tired of Pelgram, I suppose," said Isabel, composedly.

"Pelgram, then.  Yes, I am," the other girl admitted.

Her friend raised her eyebrows, and glanced at her somewhat curiously.

"You don't have to marry him, you know," she remarked in a matter-of-fact tone.

"Of course I don't," Helen replied quickly.  "But I have to sit to him four times a week until
that unspeakable portrait is finished.  And it's my belief that it never will be finished.
He won't even let me look at it now.  It's my opinion that he's doing like Penelope, and destroying
every night what he has accomplished during the day.  I would never have promised to have it
done if I had suspected what I was in for.  And if it were for any one else but old Aunt Mary
Wardrop, I'd back out now."

Isabel regarded her sympathetically.  A portrait was bad enough without the added embarrassment
of an amatory artist.

"Is he really as difficult as that?" she asked.

"Even more difficult.  He's more difficult than anything conceivable--except analytical trig,"
she added reflectively.

"Don't mix art, psychology, and mathematics, or you will certainly get into trouble," said
her friend.  "And really, if I were you, I would try to forget that I had been 'higher' educated.
It's enough to give one the creeps to hear a perfectly normal girl talk of analytical trig--whatever
that may be--if there is such a thing."

Helen laughed.

"I'm not actually sure, myself, that there is.  For, as I remember it now, it deals almost
exclusively with imaginary or worse than imaginary quantities.  I remember distinctly that
i with the acute accent meant the square root of minus one--and stood for 'imaginary' on the
face of it.  That was right at the start, and the farther you went the farther from reality
you found yourself.  But I don't remember anything of the subject--only the name--I wouldn't
dream of being so Bostonian as that."

"Well, it's almost as bad merely to refer to it," said Miss Hurd. "Especially when you know
that I never could pass beginner's algebra."

The two girls laughed together.  It was perfectly true that Isabel, who was keen almost to
the point of brilliance in the application of mathematics to such practical matters as finance
and real life, had never academically been anything but a hopeless dunce, while Helen, who
had penetrated so far into the upper occult that the mind shuddered to follow, was notoriously
incapable of making her personal accounts balance within fifty per cent.  It was an understood
situation that always amused them both.

They had been friends all their lives, these two, or so nearly all their lives that the residue
was hardly worth consideration.  As each was now nearing the middle twenties, it must have
been almost a full generation since they had been presented to one another.  It was at the
respective ages of six and five that little Miss Maitland and little Miss Hurd had been discreetly
conveyed to the decorous Back Bay Kindergarten which was known to all Bostonians of a certain
class as the "Child's Cultural Institute" of Miss Dorcas Kingsbury.  It was there they met,
under the watchful eye and the eagle espionage of Miss Dorcas.  That good lady was not distinguished
for her social graces, but her introduction of these two small maids was an instant success.
It has subsequently been established, by hesper light so to speak, that the bond which first
united the two was their chastened and wide-eyed mutual marveling at six long black cockscrew
curls which marked--for only by a figure of speech could they have been said to adorn--the
lateral aspects of Miss Dorcas's chignon.  Forth they jutted, these remarkable structures,
from cul-de-lampes above the lady's ears, and thence they descended, three toward the right
shoulder, three toward the left.  But their most astonishing quality was their buoyancy, their
resiliency, which made them vital and active things, and not mere soulless parts of an ordered
design.

At all events the two little newcomers, cowering somewhat under the glittering gaze of their
preceptress, drew for protection close to one another, small hand found small hand, and a friendship
was cemented which the swirling years had proved unable to break.

Their later experiences at this fountain of learning served only to draw them closer still.
Many a time, in later years, would they smile together, remembering incidents that had happened
in the square old red brick house with the green blinds, and the orderly terrible courtyard
with the straight narrow seats set bolt upright against a speechless wall, and the little green
pump that only grown-up persons were permitted to touch; remembering, too, the long low-backed
benches in the schoolroom, row after row to the end of the low-ceiled room, and the tiny gray
blackboard, and the painful corner behind the stove where recalcitrant pupils were stood, awaiting
the approach of tardy contrition or increased mental attainments; remembering, above all, the
grave, kind face of the teacher herself, Miss Dorcas Kingsbury--of the Kingsburys--reduced
in her middle age to conducting a "cultural institute," but as undeviating and inflexible in
her idea of duty as was the very line of her uncompromising brow.  Not bad training for small
girls, that of Miss Dorcas; Helen and Isabel would not have changed it, in their memories at
least, for the fairest lane of learning in the world.

