  Fig. 23—*General scheme of the circulation*, showing places where the
 blood takes on and gives off materials. 1. Body in general. 2. Lungs. 3.
 Kidneys. 4. Liver. 5. Organs of digestion. 6. Lymph ducts. 7. Pulmonary
                            artery. 8. Aorta.

*Blood Pressure and Velocity.*—The blood, in obedience to physical laws, passes continuously
through the blood vessels, moving always from a place of greater to one of less pressure. Through
the contraction of the ventricles, a relatively high pressure is maintained in the arteries
nearest the heart.(21) This pressure diminishes rapidly in the small arteries, becomes comparatively
slight in the capillaries, and falls practically to nothing in the veins. Near the heart in
the superior and inferior venæ cavæ, the pressure at intervals is said to be negative. This
means that the blood from these veins is actually drawn into the right auricle by the expansion
of the chest walls in breathing.(22)

The velocity of the blood is greatest in the arteries, less in the veins, and much less in
the capillaries than in either the arteries or the veins. The slower flow of the blood through
the capillaries is accounted for by the fact that their united area is many times greater than
that of the arteries which supply, or the veins which relieve, them. This allows the same quantity
of blood, flowing through them in a given time, a wider channel and causes it to move more
slowly. The time required for a complete circulation is less than one minute.

*Summary of Causes of Circulation.*—The chief factor in the circulation of the blood is, of
course, the heart. The ventricles keep a pressure on the blood which is sufficient to force
it through all the blood tubes and back to the auricles. The heart is aided in its work by
the elasticity of the arteries, which keeps the blood under pressure while the ventricles are
in a state of relaxation. It is also aided by the muscles and elastic tissue in all of the
blood vessels. These, by keeping the blood vessels in a state of "tone," or so contracted that
their capacity just equals the volume of the blood, enable pressure from the heart to be transmitted
to all parts of the blood stream. A further aid to the circulation is found in the valves in
the veins, which enable muscular contraction within the body, and variable pressure upon its
surface, to drive the blood toward the heart. The heart is also aided to some extent by the
movements of the chest walls in breathing. The organs Of circulation are under the control
of the nervous system (Chapter XVIII).

HYGIENE OF THE CIRCULATION

*Care of the Heart.*—The heart, consisting largely of muscle, is subject to the laws of muscular
exercise. It may be injured by over-exertion, but is strengthened by a moderate increase in
its usual work.(23) It may even be subjected to great exertion without danger, if it be trained
by gradually increasing its work. Such training, by giving the heart time to gain in size and
strength, prepares it for tasks that could not at first be accomplished.

In taking up a new exercise requiring considerable exertion, precautions should be observed
to prevent an overstrain of the heart. The heart of the amateur athlete, bicyclist, or mountain
climber is frequently injured by attempting more than the previous training warrants. The new
work should be taken up gradually, and feats requiring a large outlay of physical energy should
be attempted only after long periods of training.

Since the heart is controlled by the nervous system, it frequently becomes irregular in its
action through conditions that exhaust the nervous energy. Palpitations of the heart, the missing
of beats, and pains in the heart region frequently arise from this cause. It is through their
effect upon the nervous system that worry, overstudy, undue excitement, and dissipation cause
disturbances of the heart. In all such cases the remedy lies in the removal of the cause. The
nervous system should also be "toned up" through rest, plenty of sleep, and moderate exercise
in the open air.

*Effect of Drugs.*—A number of substances classed as drugs, mainly by their action on the nervous
system, produce undesirable effects upon the organs of circulation. Unfortunately some of these
are extensively used, alcohol being one of them. If taken in any but small quantities, alcohol
is a disturbing factor in the circulation. It increases the rate of the heart beat and dilates
the capillaries. Its effect upon the capillaries is shown by the "bloodshot" eye and the "red
nose" of the hard drinker. Another bad effect from the use of much alcohol is the weakening
of the heart through the accumulation of fat around this organ and within the heart muscle.
The use of alcohol also leads in many cases to a hardening of the walls of the arteries, such
as occurs in old age. This effect makes the use of alcohol especially dangerous for those in
advanced years.

Tobacco contains a drug, called nicotine, which has a bad effect upon the heart in at least
two ways: 1. When the use of tobacco is begun in early life, it interferes with the growth
of the heart, leading to its weakness in the adult. 2. When used in considerable quantity,
by young or old, it causes a nervous condition both distressing and dangerous, known as "tobacco
heart."

Tea and coffee contain a drug, called caffeine, which acts upon the nervous system and which
may, on this account, interfere with the proper control of the heart. In some individuals the
taking of a very small amount of either tea or coffee is sufficient to cause irregularities
in the action of the heart. Tea is considered the milder of the two liquids and the one less
liable to injure.

*Effect of Rheumatism.*—The disease which affects the heart more frequently than any other
is rheumatism. This attacks the lining membrane, or endocardium, and causes, not infrequently,
a shrinkage of the heart valves. The heart is thus rendered defective and, to perform its function
in the body, must work harder than if it were in a normal condition. Rheumatic attacks of the
heart do most harm when they occur in early life—the period when the valves are the most easily
affected. Any tendency toward rheumatism in children has, therefore, a serious significance
and should receive the attention of the physician. Any one having a defective heart should
avoid all forms of exercise that demand great exertion.

*Strengthening of the Blood Vessels.*—Disturbances of the circulation, causing too much blood
to be sent to certain parts of the body and an insufficient amount to others, when resulting
from slight causes, are usually due to weakness of the walls of the blood vessels, particularly
of the muscular coat. Such weakness is frequently indicated by extreme sensitiveness to heat
or cold and by a tendency to "catch cold." From a health standpoint the preservation of the
normal muscular "tone" of the blood vessels is a problem of great importance. Though the muscles
of the blood vessels cannot be exercised in the same manner as the voluntary muscles, they
may be called actively into play through all the conditions that induce changes in the blood
supply to different parts of the body. The usual forms of physical exercise necessitate such
changes and indirectly exercise the muscular coat. The exposure of the body to cold for short
intervals, because of the changes in the circulation which this induces, also serves the same
purpose. A cold bath taken with proper precautions is beneficial to the circulation of many
and so also is a brisk walk on a frosty morning. Both indirectly exercise and strengthen the
muscular coat of the blood vessels. On the other hand, too much time spent indoors, especially
in overheated rooms, leads to a weakening of the muscular coat and should be avoided.

*Checking of Flow of Blood from Wounds.*—The loss of any considerable quantity of blood is
such a serious matter that every one should know the simpler methods of checking its flow from
wounds. In small wounds the flow is easily checked by binding cotton or linen fiber over the
place. The absorbent cotton, sold in small packages at drug stores, is excellent for this purpose
and should be kept in every home. A simple method of checking "nosebleed" is that of drawing
air through the bleeding nostril, while the other nostril is compressed with the finger.(24)
Another method is to "press with the finger (or insert a small roll of paper) under the lip
against the base of the nose." (25) Where the bleeding is persistent, the nostril should be
plugged with a small roll of clean cotton or paper. When this is done, the plug should not
be removed too soon because of the likelihood of starting the flow afresh.

In dealing with large wounds the services of a physician are indispensable. But in waiting
for the physician to arrive temporary aid must be rendered. The one who gives such aid should
first decide whether an artery or a vein has been injured. This is easily determined by the
nature of the blood stream, which is in jets, or spurts, from an artery, but flows steadily
from a vein. If an artery is injured, the limb should be tightly bandaged on the side of the
wound nearest the heart; if a vein, on the side farthest from the heart. In addition to this,
the edges of the wound should be closed and covered with cotton fiber and the limb should be
placed on a support above the level of the rest of the body. A large handkerchief makes a convenient
bandage if properly applied. This should be folded diagonally and a knot tied in the middle.
Opposite ends are then tied, making a loose-fitting loop around the limb. The knot is placed
directly over the blood vessel to be compressed and a short stick inserted in the loop. The
necessary pressure is then applied by twisting the handkerchief with the stick. Time must not
be lost, however, in the preparation of a suitable bandage. The blood vessel should be compressed
with the fingers while the bandage is being prepared.

*Summary.*—The blood, to serve as a transporting agent, must be kept continually moving through
all parts of the body. The blood vessels hold the blood, supply the channels and force necessary
for its circulation, and provide conditions which enable materials both to enter and to leave
the blood stream. The heart is the chief factor in propelling the blood, although the muscles
and the elastic tissue in the walls of the arteries and the valves in the veins are necessary
aids in the process. In the capillaries the blood takes on and gives off materials, while the
arteries and veins serve chiefly as tubes for conveying the blood from one system of capillaries
to another.

*Exercises.*—1. Of what special value in the study of the body was the discovery of the circulation
of the blood?

2. State the necessity for a circulating liquid in the body.

3. Show by a drawing the general plan of the heart, locating and naming the essential parts.
Show also the connection of the large blood vessels with the cavities of the heart.

4. Compare the purpose served by the chordæ tendineæ to that served by doorstops (the strips
against which the door strikes in closing).

5. Explain how the heart propels the blood. To what class of pumps does it belong? What special
work is performed by each of its divisions?

6. Define a valve. Of what use are the valves in the heart? In the veins?

7. By what means is pressure from contracting muscles in different parts of the body made to
assist in the circulation?

8. Of what advantage is the elasticity of the arteries?

9. How is blood forced from the capillaries back to the heart?

10. Why should there be a difference in structure between the two sides of the heart?

11. Following Fig. 23, trace the blood through a complete circulation, naming all the divisions
of the system in the order of the flow of the blood.

12. If the period of rest following the period of contraction of the heart be as long as the
period of contraction, how many hours is the heart able to rest out of every twenty-four?

13. State the functions of the capillaries. Show how their structure adapts them to their work.

14. What kind of physical exercise tends to strengthen the heart? What forms of exercise tend
to injure it? State the effects of alcohol and tobacco on the heart.

15. How may rheumatism injure the heart?

16. Give directions for checking the flow of blood from small and from large blood vessels.

PRACTICAL WORK

In showing the relations of the different parts of the heart, a large dissectible model is
of great service (Fig. 24). Indeed, where the time of the class is limited, the practical work
may be confined to the study of the heart model, diagrams of the heart and the circulation,
and a few simple experiments. However, where the course is more extended, the dissection of
the heart of some animal as described below is strongly advised.

*Observations on the Heart.*—Procure, by the assistance of a butcher, the heart of a sheep,
calf, or hog. To insure the specimen against mutilation, the lungs and the diaphragm must be
left attached to the heart. In studying the different parts, good results will be obtained
by observing the following order:

1. Observe the connection of the heart to the lungs, diaphragm, and large blood vessels. Inflate
the lungs and observe the position of the heart with reference to them.

2. Examine the sac surrounding the heart, called the pericardium. Pierce its lower portion
and collect the pericardial fluid. Increase the opening thus made until it is large enough
to slip the heart out through it. Then slide back the pericardium until its connection with
the large blood vessels above the heart is found. Observe that a thin layer of it continues
down from this attachment, forming the outer covering of the heart.

3. Trace out for a short distance and study the veins and arteries connected with the heart.
The arteries are to be distinguished by their thick walls. The heart may now be severed from
the lungs by cutting the large blood vessels, care being taken to leave a considerable length
of each one attached to the heart.

                                [Fig. 24]

                Fig. 24—Model for demonstrating the heart.

4. Observe the outside of the heart. The thick, lower portion contains the cavities called
ventricles; the thin, upper, ear-shaped portions are the auricles. The thicker and denser side
lies toward the left of the animal’s body and is called the left side of the heart; the other
is the right side. Locate the right auricle and the right ventricle; the left auricle and the
left ventricle.

5. Lay the heart on the table with the front side up and the apex pointing from the operator.
This places the left side of the heart to his left and the right side to his right. Notice
the groove between the ventricles, called the inter-ventricular groove. Make an incision half
an inch to the right of this groove and cut toward the base of the heart until the pulmonary
artery is laid open. Then, following within half an inch of the groove, cut down and around
the right side of the heart. The wall of the right ventricle may now be raised and the cavity
exposed. Observe the extent of the cavity, its shape, its lining, its columns of muscles, its
half columns of muscles, its tendons (chordæ tendineæ), the tricuspid valve from the under
side, etc. Also notice the valve at the beginning of the pulmonary artery (the right semilunar)
and the sinuses, or depressions, in the artery immediately behind its divisions.

6. Now cut through the middle of the loosened ventricular wall from the apex to the middle
of the right auricle, laying it open for observation. Observe the openings into the auricle,
there being one each for the vena cava superior, the vena cava inferior, and the coronary vein.
Compare the walls, lining, shape, size, etc., with the ventricle below.

7. Cut off the end of the left ventricle about an inch above the apex. This will show the extension
of the cavity to the apex; it will also show the thickness of the walls and the shape of the
cavity. Split up the ventricular wall far enough to examine the mitral valve and the chordæ
tendineæ from the lower side.

8. Make an incision in the left auricle. Examine its inner surface and find the places of entrance
of the pulmonary veins. Examine the mitral valve from above. Compare the two sides of the heart,
part for part.

9. Separate the aorta from the other blood vessels and cut it entirely free from the heart,
care being taken to leave enough of the heart attached to the artery to insure the semilunar
valve’s being left in good condition. After tying or plugging up the holes in the sides of
the artery, pour water into the small end and observe the closing of the semilunar valve. Repeat
the experiment until the action of the valve is understood. Sketch the artery, showing the
valve in a closed condition.

*To illustrate the Action of a Ventricle.*—Procure a syringe bulb with an opening at each end.
Connect a rubber tube with each opening, letting the tubes reach into two tumblers containing
water. By alternately compressing and releasing the bulb, water is pumped from one vessel into
the other. The bulb may be taken to represent one of the ventricles. What action of the ventricle
is represented by compressing the bulb? By releasing the pressure? Show by a sectional drawing
the arrangement of the valves in the syringe bulb.

                                [Fig. 25]

               Fig. 25—Illustrating elasticity of arteries.

*To show the Advantage of the Elasticity of Arteries.*—Connect the syringe bulb used in the
last experiment with a rubber tube three or four feet in length and having rather thin walls.
In the opposite end of the rubber tube insert a short glass tube which has been drawn (by heating)
to a fine point (Fig. 25). Pump water into the rubber tube, observing:

1. The swelling of the tube (pulse) as the water is forced into it. (This is best observed
by placing the fingers on the tube.)

2. The forcing of water from the pointed tubs during the interval when no pressure is being
applied from the bulb. Compare with the action of the arteries when blood is forced into them
from the ventricles.

Repeat the experiment, using a long glass tube terminating in a point instead of the rubber
tube. (In fitting the glass tube to the bulb use a very short rubber tube.) Observe and account
for the differences in the flow of water through the inelastic tube.

*To show the Advantage of Valves in the Veins.*—Attach an open glass tube one foot in length
to each end of the rubber tube used in the preceding experiment and fill with water (by sucking)
to within about six inches of the end. Lay on the table with the glass tubes secured in an
upright position (Fig. 26). Now compress the tube with the hand, noting that the water rises
in both tubes, being pushed in both directions. This effect is similar to that produced on
the blood when a vein having no valves is compressed.

                                [Fig. 26]

  Fig. 26.—*Simple apparatus* for showing advantage of valves in veins.

Now imitate the action of a valve by clamping the tube at one point, or by closing it by pressure
from the finger, and then compressing with the hand some portion of the tube on the table.
Observe in this instance that the water is *all* pushed in the same direction. The movement
of the water is now like the effect produced on the blood in veins having valves when the veins
are compressed.

*To show the Position of the Valves in the Veins.*—Exercise the arm and hand for a moment to
increase the blood supply. Expose the forearm and examine the veins on its surface. With a
finger, stroke one of the veins toward the heart, noting that, as the blood is pushed along
on one side of the finger the blood follows on the other side. Now stroke the vein toward the
hand. Places are found beyond which the blood does not follow the finger. These mark the positions
of valves.

*To show Effect of Exercise upon the Circulation.*—1. With a finger on the "pulse" at the wrist
or temple, count the number of heart beats during a period of one minute under the following
conditions: (a) when sitting; (b) when standing; (c) after active exercise, as running. What
relation, if any, do these observations indicate between the general activity of the body and
the work of the heart?

2. Compare the size of the veins on the backs of the hands when they are placed side by side
on a table. Then exercise briskly the right hand and arm, clenching and unclenching the fist
and flexing the arm at the elbow. Place the hands again side by side and, after waiting a minute,
observe the increase in the size of the veins in the hand exercised. How is this accounted for?

*To Show the Effect of Gravity on the Circulation.*—Hold one hand high above the head, at the
same time letting the other hand hang loosely by the side. Observe the difference in the color
of the hands and the degree to which the large veins are filled. Repeat the experiment, reversing
the position of the hands. What results are observed? In what parts of the body does gravity
aid in the return of the blood to the heart? In what parts does it hinder? Where fainting is
caused by lack of blood in the brain (the usual cause), is it better to let the patient lie
down flat or to force him into a sitting posture?

*To study the Circulation in a Frog’s Foot* (Optional).—A compound microscope is needed in
this study and for extended examination it is best to destroy the frog’s brain. This is done
by inserting some blunt-pointed instrument into the skull cavity from the neck and moving it
about. A small frog, on account of the thinness of its webs, gives the best results. It should
be attached to a thin board which has an opening in one end over which the web of the foot
may be stretched. Threads should extend from two of the toes to pins driven into the board
to secure the necessary tension of the web, and the foot and lower leg should be kept moist.
Using a two-thirds-inch objective, observe the branching of the small arteries into the capillaries
and the union of the capillaries to form the small veins. The appearance is truly wonderful,
but allowance must be made for the fact that the motion of the blood is magnified, as well
as the different structures, and that it appears to move much faster than it really does. With
a still higher power, the movements of the corpuscles through the capillaries may be studied.

NOTE.—To perform this experiment without destroying the brain, the frog is first carefully
wrapped with strips of wet cloth and securely tied to the board. The wrapping, while preventing
movements of the frog, must not interfere with the circulation.

CHAPTER VI - THE LYMPH AND ITS MOVEMENT THROUGH THE BODY

                                [Fig. 27]

  Fig. 27—*Diagram showing position of the lymph* with reference to the
blood and the cells. The central tube is a capillary. The arrows indicate
             the direction of slight movements in the lymph.

The blood, it will be remembered, moves everywhere through the body in a system of closed tubes.
These keep it from coming in contact with any of the cells of the body except those lining
the tubes themselves. The capillaries, to be sure, bring the blood very near the cells of the
different tissues; still, there is need of a liquid to fill the space between the capillaries
and the cells and to transfer materials from one to the other. The lymph occupies this position
and does this work. The position of the lymph with reference to the capillaries and the cells
is shown in Fig. 27.

*Origin of the Lymph.*—The chief source of the lymph is the plasma of the blood. As before
described, the walls of the capillaries consist of a single layer of flat cells placed edge
to edge. Partly on account of the pressure upon the blood and partly on account of the natural
tendency of liquids to pass through animal membranes, a considerable portion of the plasma
penetrates the thin walls and enters the spaces occupied by the lymph.

The cells themselves also help to form the lymph, since the water and wastes leaving the cells
add to its bulk. These mix with the plasma from the blood, forming the resultant liquid which
is the lymph. A considerable amount of the material absorbed from the food canal also enters
the lymph tubes, but this passes into the blood before reaching the cells.

*Composition and Physical Properties of the Lymph.*(26)—As would naturally be expected, the
composition of the lymph is similar to that of the blood. In fact, nearly all the important
constituents of the blood are found in the lymph, but in different proportions. Food materials
for the cells are present in smaller amounts than in the blood, while impurities from the cells
are in larger amounts. As a rule the red corpuscles are absent from the lymph, but the white
corpuscles are present and in about the same numbers as in the blood.

The physical properties of the lymph are also similar to those of the blood. Like the blood,
the lymph is denser than water and also coagulates, but it coagulates more slowly than does
the blood. The most noticeable difference between these liquids is that of color, the lymph
being colorless. This is due to the absence of red corpuscles. The quantity of lymph is estimated
to be considerably greater than that of the blood.

*Lymph Vessels.*—Most of the lymph lies in minute cavities surrounding the cells and in close
relations with the capillaries (Figs. 27 and 30). These are called lymph spaces. Connecting
with the lymph spaces on the one hand, and with certain blood vessels on the other, is a system
of tubes that return the lymph to the blood stream. The smallest of these, and the ones in
greatest abundance, are called lymphatics. They consist of slender, thin-walled tubes, which
resemble veins in structure, and, like the veins, have valves. They differ from veins, however,
in being more uniform in size and in having thinner walls.

                                [Fig. 28]

 Fig. 28—*Diagram of drainage system for the lymph.* 1. Thoracic duct. 2.
 Right lymphatic duct. 3. Left subclavian vein. 4. Right subclavian vein.
 5. Superior vena cava. 6. Lacteals. 7. Lymphatic glands. The small tubes
    connecting with the lymph spaces in all parts of the body are the
                               lymphatics.

The lymphatics in different places gradually converge toward, and empty into, the two main
lymph tubes of the body. The smaller of these tubes, called the right lymphatic duct, receives
the lymph from the lymphatics in the right arm, the right side of the head, and the region
of the right shoulder. It connects with, and empties its contents into, the right subclavian
vein at the place where it is joined by the right jugular vein (Fig. 28).

The larger of the lymph tubes is called the thoracic duct. This receives lymph from all parts
of the body not drained by the right lymphatic duct, and empties it into the left subclavian
vein. Connection is made with the subclavian vein on the upper side at the place where it is
joined by the left jugular vein. The thoracic duct has a length of from sixteen to eighteen
inches, and is about as large around as a goose quill. The lower end terminates in an enlargement
in the abdominal cavity, called the receptacle of the chyle. It is provided with valves throughout
its course, in addition to one of considerable size which guards the opening into the blood vessel.

The lymphatics which join the thoracic duct from the small intestine are called the lacteals
(Fig. 28). These do not differ in structure from the lymphatics in other parts of the body,
but they perform a special work in absorbing the digested fat (Chapter XI).

*Lymphatic Glands.*—The lymphatic glands, sometimes called lymph nodes, are small and somewhat
rounded bodies situated along the course of the lymphatic tubes. They vary in size, some of
them being an inch or more in length. The lymph vessels generally open into them on one side
and leave them on the other (Figs. 28 and 30). They are not glands in function, but are so
called because of their having the general form of glands. They provide favorable conditions
for the development of white corpuscles (page 29). They also separate harmful germs and poisonous
wastes from the lymph, thereby preventing their entrance into the blood.

*Relations of the Lymph, the Blood, and the Cells.*—While the blood is necessary as a carrying,
or transporting, agent in the body, the lymph is necessary for transferring materials from
the blood to the cells and vice versa. Serving as a physiological "go between," or medium of
exchange, the lymph enables the blood to minister to the needs of the cells. But the lymph
and the blood, everything considered, can hardly be looked upon as two separate and distinct
liquids. Not only do they supplement each other in their work and possess striking similarities,
but each is made in its movements to pass into the vessels occupied by the other, so that they
are constantly mixing and mingling. For these and other reasons, they are more properly regarded
as two divisions of a single liquid—one which, by adapting itself to different purposes,(27)
supplies all the conditions of a nutrient fluid for the cells.

*Movements of the Lymph.*—As compared with the blood, the lymph must be classed as a quiet
liquid. But, as already suggested, it has certain movements which are necessary to the purposes
which it serves. A careful study shows it to have three well-defined movements as follows:

1. A movement from the capillaries toward the cells.

2. A movement from the cells toward the capillaries.

3. A movement of the entire body of lymph from the lymph spaces into the lymphatics and along
these channels to the ducts through which it enters the blood.

By the first movement the cells receive their nourishment. By the second and third movements
the lymph, more or less laden with impurities, is returned to the blood stream. (See Figs.
28 and 30.)

*Causes of the Lymph Movements.*—Let us consider first the movement through the lymph tubes.
No pump, like the heart, is known to be connected with these tubes and to supply the pressure
necessary for moving the lymph. There are, however, several forces that indirectly aid in its
flow. The most important of these are as follows:

1. Blood Pressure at the Capillaries.—The plasma which is forced through the capillary walls
by pressure from the heart makes room for itself by pushing a portion of the lymph out of the
lymph spaces. This in turn presses upon the lymph in the tubes which it enters. In this way
pressure from the heart is transmitted to the lymph, forcing it to move.

2. Variable Pressure on the Walls of the Lymph Vessels.—Pressure exerted on the sides of the
lymph tubes by contracting muscles tends to close them up and to push the lymph past the valves,
which, by closing, prevent its return (Fig. 29). Pressure at the surface of the body, provided
that it is variable, also forces the lymph along. The valves in the lymph vessels serve the
same purpose as those in the veins.

                                [Fig. 29]

Fig. 29—*Diagram* to show how the muscles pump lymph. A. Relaxed muscle
      beside which is a lymphatic tube. B. Same muscle in state of
                               contraction.

3. The Inspiratory Force.—When the thoracic cavity is enlarged in breathing, the unbalanced
atmospheric pressure is exerted from all directions towards the thoracic space. This not only
causes the air to flow into the lungs (Chapter VII), but also causes a movement of the blood
and lymph in such of their tubes as enter this cavity. It will be noted that both of the large
lymph ducts terminate where their contents may be influenced by the respiratory movements.
(See Practical Work.)

*Where the Lymph enters the Blood.*—The fact that the lymph is poured into the blood at but
two places, and these very close to each other, requires a word of explanation. As a matter
of fact, it is impossible for the lymph to flow into blood vessels at most places on account
of the blood pressure. This would force the blood into the lymph vessels, instead of allowing
the lymph to enter the blood. The lymph can enter only at some place where the blood pressure
is less than the pressure that moves the lymph. Such a place is found in the thoracic cavity.
As already pointed out (page 54), the blood pressure in the veins entering this cavity becomes,
with each expansion of the chest, negative, i.e., less than the pressure of the atmosphere
on the outside of the body. This, as we have seen, aids in the flow of the blood into the right
auricle. It also aids in the passage of lymph into the blood vessels. The lymph is said to
be "sucked in," which means that it is forced in by the unbalanced pressure of the atmosphere.(28)
Some advantage is also gained by the lymph duct’s entering the subclavian vein on the upper
side and at its union with the jugular vein. Everything considered, it is found that the lymph
flows into the blood vessels where it can be "drawn in" by the movements of breathing and where
it meets with no opposition from the blood stream itself (Fig. 30).

                                [Fig. 30]

  Fig. 30—*Diagram* showing general movement of lymph from the place of
 relatively high pressure at the lymph spaces to the place of relatively
                   low pressure in the thoracic cavity.

*Lymph Movements at the Cells.*—The double movement of the lymph from the capillaries toward
the cells and from the cells toward the capillaries is not entirely understood. Blood pressure
in the capillaries undoubtedly has much to do in forcing the plasma through the capillary walls,
but this tends to prevent the movement of the lymph in the opposite direction. Movements between
the blood and the lymph are known to take place in part according to a general principle, known
as osmosis, or dialysis.

                                [Fig. 31]

  Fig. 31—*Vessel* with an upright membranous partition for illustrating
                                 osmosis.

*Osmosis.*—The term "osmosis" is used to designate the passage of liquids through some partition
which separates them. Thus, if a vessel with an upright membranous partition be filled on the
one side with pure water and on the other with water containing salt, an exchange of materials
will take place through the membrane until the same proportion of salt exists on the two sides
(Fig. 31). The cause of osmosis is the motion of the molecules, or minute particles, that make
up the liquid substance. If the partition were not present, this motion would simply cause
a mixing of the liquids.

*Conditions under which Osmosis occurs.*—Osmosis may be shown by suitable experiments (see
Practical Work) to take place under the following conditions:

1. The liquids on the two sides of the partition must be unlike either in density or in composition.
Since the effect of the movement is to reduce the liquids to the same condition, a difference
in density causes the flow to be greater from the less dense toward the denser liquid, than
in the opposite direction; while a difference in composition causes the substances in solution
to move from the place of greater abundance toward places of less abundance.

2. The liquids must be capable of wetting, or penetrating, the partition. If but one of the
liquids penetrates the partition, the flow will be in but one direction.

3. The liquids on the two sides of the partition must readily mix with each other.

*Osmosis at the Cells.*—In the body osmosis takes place between the blood and the lymph and
between the lymph and the cells, the movements being through the capillary walls and the membranes
inclosing the cells (Fig. 27). Oxygen and food materials, which are found in great abundance
in the blood, are less abundant in the lymph and still less abundant in the cells. According
to the principle of osmosis, the main flow of oxygen and food is from the capillaries toward
the cells. On the other hand, the wastes are most abundant in the cells where they are formed,
less abundant in the lymph, and least abundant in the blood. Hence the wastes flow from the
cells toward the capillaries.

*Solutions.*—Neither the blood plasma nor the lymph, as already shown, are simple liquids;
but they consist of water and different substances dissolved in the water. They belong to a
class of substances called solutions. The chief point of interest about substances in solution
is that they are very finely divided and that their little particles are free to move about
in the liquid that contains them. Both the motion and the finely divided condition of the dissolved
substances are necessary to the process of osmosis. All substances, however, that appear to
be in solution are not able to penetrate membranes, or take part in osmosis.

*Kinds of Solutions in the Body.*—The substances in solution in the body liquids are of two
general kinds known as colloids and crystalloids. The crystalloids are able to pass through
membranous partitions, while the colloids are not. An example of a colloid is found in the
albumin of an egg, which is unable to penetrate the membrane which surrounds it. Examples of
crystalloids are found in solutions of salt and sugar in water. The inability of a colloid
to penetrate a membrane is due to the fact that it does not form a true solution. Its particles
(molecules), instead of being completely separated, still cling together, forming little masses
that are too large to penetrate the membrane. Since, however, it has the appearance, on being
mixed with water, of being dissolved, it is called a colloidal solution. The crystalloid substance,
on the other hand, completely separates in the water and forms a true solution—one which is
able to penetrate the partition or membrane.

*Osmosis not a Sufficient Cause.*—The passage of materials through animal membranes, according
to the principle of osmosis, is limited to crystalloid substances. But colloid substances are
also known to pass through the various partitions of the body. An example of such is found
in the proteids of the blood which, as a colloidal solution, pass through the capillary walls
to become a part of the lymph. Perhaps the best explanation offered as yet for this passage
is that the colloidal substances are changed by the cells lining the capillaries into substances
that form true solutions and that after the passage they are changed back again to the colloidal
condition.

*Summary.*—Between the cells and the capillaries is a liquid, known as the lymph, which is
similar in composition and physical properties to the blood. It consists chiefly of escaped
plasma. The vessels that contain it are connected with the system for the circulation of the
blood. By adding new material to the lymph and withdrawing waste material from it, the blood
keeps this liquid in a suitable condition for supplying the needs of the cells. Supplementing
each other in all respects, the blood and the lymph together form the nutrient cell fluid of
the body. The interchange of material between the blood and the lymph, and the lymph and the
cells, takes place in part according to the principle of osmosis.

*Exercises.*—1. Explain the necessity for the lymph in the body.

2. Compare lymph and water with reference to density, color, and complexity of composition.

3. Compare lymph and blood with reference to color, composition, and movement through the body.

4. Show how blood pressure in the capillaries causes a flow of the lymph.

5. Show how contracting muscles cause the lymph to move. Compare with the effect of muscular
contraction upon the blood in the veins.

6. Trace the lymph in its flow from the right hand to where it enters the blood; from the feet
to where it enters the blood.

7. What conditions prevail at the cells to cause a movement of food and oxygen in one direction
and of waste materials in the opposite direction?

8. What part does water play in the exchanges at the cells?

9. Show that the blood and the lymph together fulfill all the requirements of a nutrient cell
fluid in the body.

PRACTICAL WORK

*To illustrate the Effect of Breathing upon the Flow of Lymph.*—Tightly holding one end of
a glass tube between the lips, let the other end extend into water in a tumbler on a table.
In this position quickly inhale air through the nostrils, noting that with each inhalation
there is a slight movement of the water up the tube. (No sucking action should be exerted by
the mouth.) Apply to the movements in the large blood and lymph vessels entering the thoracic
cavity.

*To illustrate Osmosis.*—1. Separate the shell from the lining membrane at one end of an egg,
over an area about one inch in diameter. To do this without injuring the membrane, the shell
must first be broken into small pieces and then picked off with a pair of forceps, or a small
knife blade. Fit a small glass tube, eight or ten inches long, into the other end so that it
will penetrate the membrane and pass down into the yolk. Securely fasten the tube to the shell
by melting beeswax around it, and set the egg in a small tumbler partly filled with water.
Examine in the course of half an hour. What evidence now exists that the water has passed through
the membrane?

2. Tie over the large end of a "thistle tube" (used by chemists) a thin animal membrane, such
as a piece of the pericardium or a strip of the membrane from around a sausage. Then fill the
bulb and the lower end of the tube with a concentrated solution of some solid, such as sugar,
salt, or copper sulphate. Suspend in a vessel of water so that the liquid which it contains
is just on a level with the water in the vessel. Examine from time to time, looking for evidence
of a movement in each direction through the membrane. Why should the movement of the water
into the tube be greater than the movement in the opposite direction? (If the thistle tube
has a very slender stem, it is better to fill the bulb before tying on the membrane. The opening
in the stem may be plugged during the process of filling.)

                                [Fig. 32]

                         Fig. 32—An osmosometer.

NOTE.—With a special piece of apparatus, known as an osmosometer, the principle of osmosis
may be more easily illustrated than by the method in either of the above experiments (Fig.
32). This apparatus may be obtained from supply houses.

CHAPTER VII - RESPIRATION

Through the movements of the blood and the lymph, materials entering the body are transported
to the cells, and wastes formed at the cells are carried to the organs which remove them from
the body. We are now to consider the passage of materials from outside the body to the cells
and vice versa. One substance which the body constantly needs is oxygen, and one which it is
constantly throwing off is carbon dioxide. Both of these are constituents of

*The Atmosphere.*—The atmosphere, or air, completely surrounds the earth as a kind of envelope,
and comes in contact with everything upon its surface. It is composed chiefly of oxygen and
nitrogen,(29) but it also contains a small per cent of other substances, such as water-vapor,
carbon dioxide, and argon. All of the regular constituents of the atmosphere are gases, and
these, as compared with liquids and solids, are very light. Nevertheless the atmosphere has
weight and, on this account, exerts pressure upon everything on the earth. At the sea level,
its pressure is nearly fifteen pounds to the square inch. The atmosphere forms an essential
part of one’s physical environment and serves various purposes. The process by which gaseous
materials are made to pass between the body and the atmosphere is known as

*Respiration.*—As usually defined, respiration, or breathing, consists of two simple processes—that
of taking air into special contrivances in the body, called the lungs, and that of expelling
air from the lungs. The first process is known as inspiration; the second as expiration. We
must, however, distinguish between respiration by the lungs, called external respiration, and
respiration by the cells, called internal respiration.

The purpose of respiration is indicated by the changes that take place in the air while it
is in the lungs. Air entering the lungs in ordinary breathing parts with about five per cent
of itself in the form of oxygen and receives about four and one half per cent of carbon dioxide,
considerable water-vapor, and a small amount of other impurities. These changes suggest a twofold
purpose for respiration:

1. To obtain from the atmosphere the supply of oxygen needed by the body.

2. To transfer to the atmosphere certain materials (wastes) which must be removed from the body.

The chief organs concerned in the work of respiration are

*The Lungs.*—The lungs consist of two sac-like bodies suspended in the thoracic cavity, and
occupying all the space not taken up by the heart. They are not simple sacs, however, but are
separated into numerous divisions, as follows:

1. The lung on the right side of the thorax, called the right lung, is made up of three divisions,
or lobes, and the left lung is made up of two lobes.

2. The lobes on either side are separated into smaller divisions, called lobules (Fig. 33).
Each lobule receives a distinct division of an air tube and has in itself the structure of
a miniature lung.

                                [Fig. 33]

Fig. 33—*Lungs and air passages* seen from the front. The right lung shows
 the lobes and their divisions, the lobules. The tissue of the left lung
              has been dissected away to show the air tubes.

3. In the lobule the air tube divides into a number of smaller tubes, each ending in a thin-walled
sac, called an infundibulum. The interior of the infundibulum is separated into many small
spaces, known as the alveoli, or air cells.

The lungs are remarkable for their lightness and delicacy of structure.(30) They consist chiefly
of the tissues that form their sacs, air tubes, and blood vessels; the membranes that line
their inner and outer surfaces; and the connective tissue that binds these parts together.
All these tissues are more or less elastic. The relation of the different parts of the lungs
to each other and to the outside atmosphere will be seen through a study of the

*Air Passages.*—The air passages consist of a system of tubes which form a continuous passageway
between the outside atmosphere and the different divisions of the lungs. The air passes through
them as it enters and leaves the lungs, a fact which accounts for the name.

                                [Fig. 34]

 Fig. 34—*Model of section through the head*, showing upper air passages
  and other parts. 1. Left nostril. 2. Pharynx. 3. Tongue and cavity of
               mouth. 4. Larynx. 5. Trachea. 6. Esophagus.

The incoming air first enters the nostrils. These consist of two narrow passages lying side
by side in the nose, and connecting with the pharynx behind. The lining of the nostrils, called
mucous membrane is quite thick, and has its surface much extended by reason of being spread
over some thin, scroll-shaped bones that project into the passage. This membrane is well supplied
with blood vessels and secretes a considerable quantity of liquid. Because of the nature and
arrangement of the membrane, the nostrils are able to warm and moisten the incoming air, and
to free it from dust particles, preparing it, in this way, for entrance into the lungs (Fig. 34).

The nostrils are separated from the mouth by a thin layer of bone, and back of both the mouth
and the nostrils is the pharynx. The pharynx and the mouth serve as parts of the food canal,
as well as air passages, and are described in connection with the organs of digestion (Chapter
X). Air entering the pharynx, either by the nostrils or by the mouth, passes through it into
the larynx. The larynx, being the special organ for the production of the voice, is described
later (Chapter XXI). The entrance into the larynx is guarded by a movable lid of cartilage,
called the epiglottis, which prevents food particles and liquids, on being swallowed, from
passing into the lower air tubes. The relations of the nostrils, mouth, pharynx, and larynx
are shown in Fig. 34.

From the larynx the air enters the trachea, or windpipe. This is a straight and nearly round
tube, slightly less than an inch in diameter and about four and one half inches in length.
Its walls contain from sixteen to twenty C-shaped, cartilaginous rings, one above the other
and encircling the tube. These incomplete rings, with their openings directed backward, are
held in place by thin layers of connective and muscular tissue. At the lower end the trachea
divides into two branches, called the bronchi, each of which closely resembles it in structure.
Each bronchus separates into a number of smaller divisions, called the bronchial tubes, and
these in turn divide into still smaller branches, known as the lesser bronchial tubes (Fig.
33). The lesser bronchial tubes, and the branches into which they separate, are the smallest
of the air tubes. One of these joins, or expands into, each of the minute lung sacs, or infundibula.
Mucous membrane lines all of the air passages.

*General Condition of the Air Passages.*—One necessary condition for the movement of the air
into and from the lungs is an unobstructed passageway.(31) The air passages must be kept open
and free from obstructions. They are kept open by special contrivances found in their walls,
which, by supplying a degree of stiffness, cause the tubes to keep their form. In the trachea,
bronchi, and larger bronchial tubes, the stiffness is supplied by rings of cartilage, while
in the smaller tubes this is replaced by connective and muscular tissue. The walls of the larynx
contain strips and plates of cartilage; while the nostrils and the pharynx are kept open by
their bony surroundings.

                                [Fig. 35]

Fig. 35—*Ciliated epithelial cells.* A. Two cells highly magnified. c.
 Cilia, n. Nucleus. B. Diagram of a small air tube showing the lining
                                of cilia.

The air passages are kept clean by cells especially adapted to this purpose, known as the ciliated
epithelial cells. These are slender, wedge-shaped cells which have projecting from a free end
many small, hair-like bodies, called cilia (Fig. 35). They line the mucous membrane in most
of the air passages, and are so placed that the cilia project into the tubes. Here they keep
up an inward and outward wave-like movement, which is quicker and has greater force in the
outward direction. By this means the cilia are able to move small pieces of foreign matter,
such as dust particles and bits of partly dried mucus, called phlegm, to places where they
can be easily expelled from the lungs.(32)

                                [Fig. 36]

Fig. 36—*Terminal air sacs.* The two large sacs are infundibula; the small
                    divisions are alveoli. (Enlarged.)

*The Alveoli.*—The alveoli, or air cells, are the small divisions of the infundibula (Fig.
36). They are each about one one-hundredth of an inch (1/4 mm.) in diameter, being formed by
the infolding of the infundibular wall. This wall, which has for its framework a thin layer
of elastic connective tissue, supports a dense network of capillaries (Fig. 37), and is lined
by a single layer of cells placed edge to edge. By this arrangement the air within the alveoli
is brought very near a large surface of blood, and the exchange of gases between the air and
the blood is made possible. It is at the alveoli that the oxygen passes from the air into the
blood, and the carbon dioxide passes from the blood into the air. At no place in the lungs,
however, do the air and the blood come in direct contact. Their exchanges must in all cases
take place through the capillary walls and the layer of cells lining the alveoli.

                                [Fig. 37]

Fig. 37—*Inner lung surface (magnified)*, the blood vessels injected with
  coloring matter. The small pits are alveoli, and the vessels in their
                      walls are chiefly capillaries.

                                [Fig. 38]

Fig. 38.—*Diagram to show the double movement of air and blood through the
lungs.* The blood leaves the heart by the pulmonary artery and returns by
   the pulmonary veins. The air enters and leaves the lungs by the same
                             system of tubes.

                                [Fig. 39]

 Fig. 39—*Diagram to show air and blood movements in a terminal air sac.*
  While the air moves into and from the space within the sac, the blood
                    circulates through the sac walls.

*Blood Supply to the Lungs.*—To accomplish the purposes of respiration, not only the air, but
the blood also, must be passed into and from the lungs. The chief artery conveying blood to
the lungs is the pulmonary artery. This starts at the right ventricle and by its branches conveys
blood to the capillaries surrounding the alveoli in all parts of the lungs. The branches of
the pulmonary artery lie alongside of, and divide similarly to, the bronchial tubes. At the
places where the finest divisions of the air tubes enter the infundibula, the little arteries
branch into the capillaries that penetrate the infundibular walls (Figs. 38 and 39). From these
capillaries the blood is conveyed by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle.

The lungs also receive blood from two (in some individuals three) small arteries branching
from the aorta, known as the bronchial arteries. These convey to the lungs blood that has already
been supplied with oxygen, passing it into the capillaries in the walls of the bronchi, bronchial
tubes, and large blood vessels, as well as the connective tissue between the lobes of the lungs.
This blood leaves the lungs partly by the bronchial veins and partly by the pulmonary veins.
No part of the body is so well supplied with blood as the lungs.

                                [Fig. 40]

Fig. 40—*The pleuræ.* Diagram showing the general form of the pleural sacs
as they surround the lungs and line the inner surfaces of the chest (other
  parts removed). A, A’. Places occupied by the lungs. B, B’. Slight
 space within the pleural sacs containing the pleural secretion, a, a’.
   Outer layer of pleura and lining of chest walls and upper surface of
diaphragm. b, b’. Inner layer of pleura and outer lining of lungs. C.
               Space occupied by the heart. D. Diaphragm.

*The Pleura.*—The pleura is a thin, smooth, elastic, and tough membrane which covers the outside
of the lungs and lines the inside of the chest walls. The covering of each lung is continuous
with the lining of the chest wall on its respective side and forms with it a closed sac by
which the lung is surrounded, the arrangement being similar to that of the pericardium. Properly
speaking, there are two pleuræ, one for each lung, and these, besides inclosing the lungs,
partition off a middle space which is occupied by the heart (Fig. 40). They also cover the
upper surface of the diaphragm, from which they deflect upward, blending with the pericardium.
A small amount of liquid is secreted by the pleura, which prevents friction as the surfaces
glide over each other in breathing.

*The Thorax.*—The force required for breathing is supplied by the box-like portion of the body
in which the lungs are placed. This is known as the thorax, or chest, and includes that part
of the trunk between the neck and the abdomen. The space which it incloses, known as the thoracic
cavity, is a variable space and the walls surrounding this space are air-tight. A framework
for the thorax is supplied by the ribs which connect with the spinal column behind and with
the sternum, or breast-bone, in front. They form joints with the spinal column, but connect
with the sternum by strips of cartilage. The ribs do not encircle the cavity in a horizontal
direction, but slope downward from the spinal column both toward the front and toward the sides,
this being necessary to the service which they render in breathing.

*How Air is Brought into and Expelled from the Lungs.*—The principle involved in breathing
is that air flows from a place of greater to a place of less pressure. The construction of
the thorax and the arrangement of the lungs within it provide for the application of this principle
in a most practical manner. The lungs are suspended from the upper portion of the thoracic
cavity, and the trachea and the upper air passages provide the only opening to the outside
atmosphere. Air entering the thorax must on this account pass into the lungs. As the thorax
is enlarged the air in the lungs expands, and there is produced within them a place of slightly
less air pressure than that of the atmosphere on the outside of the body. This difference causes
the air to flow into the lungs.

                                [Fig. 41]

 Fig. 41—*Diagram illustrating the bellows principle in breathing.* A.
     The human bellows. B. The hand bellows. Compare part for part.

When the thorax is diminished in size, the air within the lungs is slightly compressed. This
causes it to become denser and to exert on this account a pressure slightly greater than that
of the atmosphere on the outside. The air now flows out until the equality of the pressure
is again restored. Thus the thorax, by making the pressure within the lungs first slightly
less and then slightly greater than the atmospheric pressure, causes the air to move into and
out of the lungs.

Breathing is well illustrated by means of the common hand bellows, its action being similar
to that of the thorax. It will be observed that when the sides are spread apart air flows into
the bellows. When they are pressed together the air flows out. If an air-tight sack were hung
in the bellows with its mouth attached to the projecting tube, the arrangement would resemble
closely the general plan of the breathing organs (Fig. 41). One respect, however, in which
the bellows differs from the thorax should be noted. The thorax is never sufficiently compressed
to drive out all the air. Air is always present in the lungs. This keeps them more or less
distended and pressed against the thoracic walls.

*How the Thoracic Space is Varied.*—One means of varying the size of the thoracic cavity is
through the movements of the ribs and their resultant effect upon the walls of the thorax.
In bringing about these movements the following muscles are employed:

1. The scaleni muscles, three in number on each side, which connect at one end with the vertebræ
of the neck and at the other with the first and second ribs. Their contraction slightly raises
the upper portion of the thorax.

2. The elevators of the ribs, twelve in number on each side, which are so distributed that
each single muscle is attached, at one end, to the back portion of a rib and, at the other,
to a projection of the vertebra a few inches above. The effect of their contraction is to’
elevate the middle portion of the ribs and to turn them outward or spread them apart.

3. The intercostal muscles, which form two thin layers between the ribs, known as the internal
and the external intercostal muscles. The external intercostals are attached between the outer
lower margin of the rib above and the outer upper margin of the rib below, and extend obliquely
downward and forward. The internal intercostals are attached between the inner margins of adjacent
ribs, and they extend obliquely downward and backward from the front. The contraction of the
external intercostal muscles raises the ribs, and the contraction of the internal intercostals
tends to lower them.

                                [Fig. 42]

  Fig. 42—*Simple apparatus* for illustrating effect of movements of the
 ribs upon the thoracic space; strips of cardboard held together by pins,
     the front part being raised or lowered by threads moving through
   attachments at 1 and 2. As the front is raised the space between the
 uprights is increased. The front upright corresponds to the breastbone,
the back one to the spinal column, the connecting strips to the ribs, and
                 the threads to the intercostal muscles.

By slightly raising and spreading apart the ribs the thoracic space is increased in two directions—from
front to back and from side to side. Lowering and converging the ribs has, of course, the opposite
effect (Fig. 42). Except in forced expirations the ribs are lowered and converged by their
own weight and by the elastic reaction of the surrounding parts.

*The Diaphragm.*—Another means of varying the thoracic space is found in an organ known as
the diaphragm. This is the dome-shaped, movable partition which separates the thoracic cavity
from the cavity of the abdomen. The edges of the diaphragm are firmly attached to the walls
of the trunk, and the center is supported by the pericardium and the pleura. The outer margin
is muscular, but the central portion consists of a strong sheet of connective tissue. By the
contraction of its muscles the diaphragm is pulled down, thereby increasing the thoracic cavity.
By raising the diaphragm the thoracic cavity is diminished.

The diaphragm, however, is not raised by the contraction of its own muscles, but is pushed
up by the organs beneath. By the elastic reaction of the abdominal walls (after their having
been pushed out by the lowering of the diaphragm), pressure is exerted on the organs of the
abdomen and these in turn press against the diaphragm. This crowds it into the thoracic space.
In forced expirations the muscles in the abdominal walls contract to push up the diaphragm.

*Interchange of Gases in the Lungs.*—During each inspiration the air from the outside fills
the entire system of bronchial tubes, but the alveoli are largely filled, at the same time,
by the air which the last expiratory effort has left in the passages. By the action of currents
and eddies and by the rapid diffusion of gas particles, the air from the outside mixes with
that in the alveoli and comes in contact with the membranous walls. Here the oxygen, after
being dissolved by the moisture in the membrane, diffuses into the blood. The carbon dioxide,
on the other hand, being in excess in the blood, diffuses toward the air in the alveoli. The
interchange of gases at the lungs, however, is not fully understood, and it is possible that
other forces than osmosis play a part.

                                [Fig. 43]

              Fig. 43—*Diagram* illustrating lung capacity.

*Capacity of the Lungs.*—The air which passes into and from the lungs in ordinary breathing,
called the tidal air, is but a small part of the whole amount of air which the lungs contain.
Even after a forced expiration the lungs are almost half full; the air which remains is called
the residual air. The air which is expelled from the lungs by a forced expiration, less the
tidal air, is called the reserve, or supplemental, air. These several quantities are easily
estimated. (See Practical Work.) In the average individual the total capacity of the lungs
(with the chest in repose) is about one gallon. In forced inspirations this capacity may be
increased about one third, the excess being known as the complemental air (Fig. 43).

                                [Fig. 44]

Fig. 44—*Diagram* illustrating internal respiration and its dependence on
         external respiration. (Modified from Hall.) (See text.)

*Internal, or Cell, Respiration.*—The oxygen which enters the blood in the lungs leaves it
in the tissues, passing through the lymph into the cells (Fig. 44). At the same time the carbon
dioxide which is being formed at the cells passes into the blood. An exchange of gases is thus
taking place between the cells and the blood, similar to that taking place between the blood
and the air. This exchange is known as internal, or cell, respiration. By internal respiration
the oxygen reaches the place where it is to serve its purpose, and the carbon dioxide begins
its movement toward the exterior of the body. This "breathing by the cells" is, therefore,
the final and essential act of respiration. Breathing by the lungs is simply the means by which
the taking up of oxygen and *the* giving off of carbon dioxide by the cells is made possible.

HYGIENE OF RESPIRATORY ORGANS

The liability of the lungs to attacks from such dread diseases as consumption and pneumonia
makes questions touching their hygiene of first importance. Consumption does not as a rule
attack sound lung tissue, but usually has its beginning in some weak or enfeebled spot in the
lungs which has lost its "power of resistance." Though consumption is not inherited, as some
suppose, lung weaknesses may be transmitted from parents to children. This, together with the
fact, now generally recognized, that consumption is contagious, accounts for the frequent appearance
of this disease in the same family. Consumption as well as other respiratory affections can
in the majority of cases be prevented, and in many cases cured, by an intelligent observation
of well-known laws of health.

*Breathe through the Nostrils.*—Pure air and plenty of it is the main condition in the hygiene
of the lungs. One necessary provision for obtaining pure air is that of breathing through the
nostrils. Air is the carrier of dust particles and not infrequently of disease germs.(33) Partly
through the small hairs in the nose, but mainly through the moist membrane that lines the passages,
the nostrils serve as filters for removing the minute solid particles (Fig. 45). While it is
important that nose breathing be observed at all times, it is especially important when one
is surrounded by a dusty or smoky atmosphere. Otherwise the small particles that are breathed
in through the mouth may find a lodging place in the lungs.

                                [Fig. 45]

  Fig. 45—*Human air filter.* Diagram of a section through the nostrils;
 shows projecting bones covered with moist membrane against which the air
is made to strike by the narrow passages. 1. Air passages. 2. Cavities in
         the bones. 3. Front lower portion of the cranial cavity.

In addition to removing dust particles and germs, other purposes are served by breathing through
the nostrils. The warmth and moisture which the air receives in this way, prepare it for entering
the lungs. Mouth breathing, on the other hand, looks bad and during sleep causes snoring. The
habit of nose breathing should be established early in life.(34)

*Cultivate Full Breathing.*—Many people, while apparently taking in sufficient air to supply
their need for oxygen, do not breathe deeply enough to "freely ventilate the lungs." "Shallow
breathing," as this is called, is objectionable because it fails to keep up a healthy condition
of the entire lung surface. Portions of the lungs to which air does not easily penetrate fail
to get the fresh air and exercise which they need. As a consequence, they become weak and,
by losing their "power of resistance," become points of attack in diseases of the lungs.(35)
The breathing of each individual should receive attention, and where from some cause it is
not sufficiently full and deep, the means should be found for remedying the defect.

*Causes of Shallow Breathing.*—Anything that impedes the free movement of air into the lungs
tends to cause shallow breathing A drooping of the back or shoulders and a curved condition
of the spinal column, such as is caused by an improper position in sitting, interfere with
the free movements of the ribs and are recognized causes. Clothing also may impede the respiratory
movements and lead to shallow breathing. If too tight around the chest, clothing interferes
with the elevation of the ribs; and if too tight around the waist, it prevents the depression
of the diaphragm. Other causes of shallow breathing are found in the absence of vigorous exercise,
in the leading of an indoor and inactive life, in obstructions in the nostrils and upper pharynx,
and in the lack of attention to proper methods of breathing.

To prevent shallow breathing one should have the habit of sitting and standing erect. The clothing
must not be allowed to interfere with the respiratory movements. The taking of exercise sufficiently
vigorous to cause deep and rapid breathing should be a common practice and one should spend
considerable time out of doors. If one has a flat chest or round shoulders, he should strive
by suitable exercises to overcome these defects. Obstructions in the nostrils or pharynx should
be removed.

*Breathing Exercises.*—In overcoming the habit of shallow breathing and in strengthening the
lungs generally, the practicing of occasional deep breathing has been found most valuable and
is widely recommended. With the hands on the hips, the shoulders drawn back and down, the chest
pushed upward and forward, and the chin slightly depressed, draw the air slowly through the
nostrils until the lungs are completely full. After holding this long enough to count three
slowly, expel it quickly from the lungs. Avoid straining. To get the benefit of pure air, it
is generally better to practice deep breathing out of doors or before an open window.

By combining deep breathing with simple exercises of the arms, shoulders, and trunk much may
be done towards straightening the spine, squaring the shoulders, and overcoming flatness of
the chest. Though such movements are best carried on by the aid of a physical director, one
can do much to help himself. One may safely proceed on the principle that slight deformities
of the chest, spine, and shoulders are corrected by gaining and keeping the natural positions,
and may employ any movements which will loosen up the parts and bring them where they naturally
belong.(36)

*Serious Nature of Colds.*—That many cases of consumption have their beginning in severe colds
(on the lungs) is not only a matter of popular belief, but the judgment also of physicians.
Though the cold is a different affection from that of consumption, it may so lower the vitality
of the body and weaken the lung surfaces that the germs of consumption find it easy to get
a start. On this account a cold on the chest which does not disappear in a few days, but which
persists, causing more or less coughing and pain in the lungs, must be given serious consideration.(37)
The usual home remedies failing to give relief, a physician should be consulted. It should
also be noted that certain diseases of a serious nature (pneumonia, diphtheria, measles, etc.)
have in their beginning the appearance of colds. On this account it is wise not only to call
a physician, but to call him early, in severe attacks of the lungs. Especially if the attack
be attended by difficult breathing, fever, and a rapid pulse is the case serious and medical
advice necessary.

*Ventilation.*—The process by which the air in a room is kept fresh and pure is known as ventilation.
It is a double process—that of bringing fresh air into the room and that of getting rid of
air that has been rendered impure by breathing (38) or by lamps. Outdoor air is usually of
a different temperature (colder in winter, warmer in summer) from that indoors, and as a consequence
differs from it slightly in weight. On account of this difference, suitable openings in the
walls of buildings induce currents which pass between the rooms and the outside atmosphere
even when there is no wind. In winter care must be taken to prevent drafts and to avoid too
great a loss of heat from the room. A cold draft may even cause more harm to one in delicate
health than the breathing of air which is impure. To ventilate a room successfully the problem
of preventing drafts must be considered along with that of admitting the fresh air.

                                [Fig. 46]

         Fig. 46—Window adjusted for ventilation without drafts.

The method of ventilation must also be adapted to the construction of the building, the plan
of heating, and the condition of the weather. Specific directions cannot be given, but the
following suggestions will be found helpful in ventilating rooms where the air is not warmed
before being admitted:

1. Introduce, the air through many small openings rather than a few large ones. If the windows
are used for this purpose, raise the lower sash and drop the upper one slightly for several
windows, varying the width to suit the conditions (Fig. 46). By this means sufficient air may
be introduced without causing drafts.

2. Introduce the air at the warmest portions of the room. The air should, if possible, be warmed
before reaching the occupants.

3. If the wind is blowing, ventilate principally on the sheltered side of the house.

Ample provision should be made for fresh air in sleeping rooms, and here again drafts must
be avoided. Especially should the bed be so placed that strong air currents do not pass over
the sleeper. In schoolhouses and halls for public gatherings the means for efficient ventilation
should, if possible, be provided in the general plan of construction and method of heating.

                                [Fig. 47]

 Fig. 47—*Artificial respiration* as a laboratory experiment. Expiration.
                    Prone-posture method of Schaffer.

*Artificial Respiration.*—When natural breathing is temporarily suspended, as in partial drowning,
or when one has been overcome by breathing some poisonous gas, the saving of life often depends
upon the prompt application of artificial respiration. This is accomplished by alternately
compressing and enlarging the thorax by means of variable pressure on the outside, imitating
the natural process as nearly as possible. Following is the method proposed by Professor E.A.
Schaffer of England, and called by him "the prone-posture method of artificial respiration":

The patient is laid face downward with an arm bent under the head, and intermittent pressure
applied vertically over the shortest ribs. The pressure drives the air from the lungs, both
by compressing the lower portions of the chest and by forcing the abdominal contents against
the diaphragm, while the elastic reaction of the parts causes fresh air to enter (Figs. 47
and 48). "The operator kneels or squats by the side of, or across the patient, places his hands
over the lowest ribs and swings his body backward and forward so as to allow his weight to
fall vertically on the wrists and then to be removed; in this way hardly any muscular exertion
is required.... The pressure is applied gradually and slowly, occupying some three seconds;
it is then withdrawn during two seconds and again applied; and so on some twelve times per
minute."(39)

                                [Fig. 48]

               Fig. 48—Artificial respiration. Inspiration.

The special advantages of the prone-posture method over others that have been employed are:
I. It may be applied by a single individual and fora long period of time without exhaustion.
2. It allows the mucus and water (in case of drowning) to run out of the mouth, and causes
the tongue to fall forward so as not to obstruct the passageway. 3. It brings a sufficient
amount of air into the lungs.(40)

While applying artificial respiration, the heat of the body should not be allowed to escape
any more than can possibly be helped. In case of drowning, the patient should be wrapped in
dry blankets or clothing, while bottles of hot water may be placed in contact with the body.
The circulation should be stimulated, as may be done by rubbing the hands, feet, or limbs in
the direction of the flow of the blood in the veins.

*Tobacco Smoke and the Air* Passages.—Smoke consists of minute particles of unburnt carbon,
or soot, such as collect in the chimneys of fireplaces and furnaces. If much smoke is taken
into the lungs, it irritates the delicate linings and tends to clog them up. Tobacco smoke
also contains the poison nicotine, which is absorbed into the blood. For these reasons the
cigarette user who inhales the smoke does himself great harm, injuring his nervous system and
laying the foundation for diseases of the air passages. The practice of smoking indoors is
likewise objectionable, since every one in a room containing the smoke is compelled to breathe it.

*Alcohol and Diseases of the Lungs.*—Pneumonia is a serious disease of the lungs caused by
germs. The attacks occur as a result of exposure, especially when the body is in a weakened
condition. A noted authority states that "alcoholism is perhaps the most potent predisposing
cause" of pneumonia.(41) A person addicted to the use of alcohol is also less likely to recover
from the disease than one who has avoided its use, a result due in part to the weakening effect
of alcohol upon the heart. The congestion of the lungs in pneumonia makes it very difficult
for the heart to force the blood through them. The weakened heart of the drunkard gives way
under the task.

The statement sometimes made that alcohol is beneficial in pulmonary tuberculosis is without
foundation in fact. On the other hand, alcoholism is a recognized cause of consumption. Some
authorities claim that this disease is more frequent in heavy drinkers than in those of temperate
habits, in the proportion of about three to one, and that possibly half of the cases of tuberculosis
are traceable to alcoholism.(42)

*The Outdoor Cure for Lung Diseases*—Among the many remedies proposed for consumption and kindred
diseases, none have proved more beneficial, according to reports, than the so-called "outdoor"
cure. The person having consumption is fed plentifully upon the most nourishing food, and is
made to spend practically his entire time, including the sleeping hours, out of doors. Not
only is this done during the pleasant months of summer, but also during the winter when the
temperature is below freezing. Severe exposure is prevented by overhead protection at night
and by sufficient clothing to keep the body warm. The abundant supply of pure, cold air toughens
the lungs and invigorates the entire body, thereby enabling it to throw off the disease.

The success attending this method of treating consumptives suggests the proper mode of strengthening
lungs that are not diseased, but simply weak. The person having weak lungs should spend as
much time as he conveniently can out of doors. He should provide the most ample ventilation
at night and have a sleeping room to himself. He should practice deep breathing exercises and
partake of a nourishing diet. While avoiding prolonged chilling and other conditions liable
to induce colds, he should take advantage of every opportunity of exposing himself fully and
freely to the outside atmosphere.

*Summary.*—The purpose of respiration is to bring about an exchange of gases between the body
and the atmosphere. The organs employed for this purpose, called the respiratory organs, are
adapted to handling materials in the gaseous state, and are operated in accordance with principles
governing the movements of the atmosphere. By alternately increasing and diminishing the thoracic
space, air is made to pass between the outside atmosphere and the interior of the lungs. Finding
its way into the smallest divisions of the lungs, called the alveoli, the air comes very near
a large surface of blood. By this means the carbon dioxide diffuses out of the blood, and the
free oxygen enters. Through the combined action of the organs of respiration and the organs
that move the blood and the lymph, the cells in all parts of the body are enabled to exchange
certain gaseous materials with the outside atmosphere.

                                [Fig. 49]

                Fig. 49—Model for demonstrating the lungs.

*Exercises.—*1. How does air entering the lungs differ in composition from air leaving the
lungs? What purposes of respiration are indicated by these differences?

2. Name the divisions of the lungs.

3. Trace air from the outside atmosphere into the alveoli. Trace the blood from the right ventricle
to the alveoli and back again to the left auricle.

4. How does the movement of air into and from the lungs differ from that of the blood through
the lungs with respect to (a) the direction of the motion. (b) the causes of the motion, and
(c) the tubes through which the motion takes place?

5. How are the air passages kept clean and open?

6. Describe the pleura. Into what divisions does it separate the thoracic cavity?

7. Describe and name uses of the diaphragm.

8. If 30 cubic inches of air are passed into the lungs at each inspiration and .05 of this
is retained as oxygen, calculate the number of cubic feet of oxygen consumed each day, if the
number of inspirations be 18 per minute.

9. Find the weight of a day’s supply of oxygen, as found in the above problem, allowing 1.3
ounces as the weight of a cubic foot.

10. Make a study of the hygienic ventilation of the schoolroom.

11. Give advantages of full breathing over shallow breathing.

12. How may a flat chest and round shoulders be a cause of consumption? How may these deformities
be corrected?

13. Give general directions for applying artificial respiration.

PRACTICAL WORK

Examine a dissectible model of the chest and its contents (Fig. 49). Note the relative size
of the two lungs and their position with reference to the heart and diaphragm. Compare the
side to side and vertical diameters of the cavity. Trace the air tubes from the trachea to
their smallest divisions.

*Observation of Lungs* (Optional).—Secure from a butcher the lungs of a sheep, calf, or hog.
The windpipe and heart should be left attached and the specimen kept in a moist condition until
used. Demonstrate the trachea, bronchi, and the bronchial tubes, and the general arrangement
of pulmonary arteries and veins. Examine the pleura and show lightness of lung tissue by floating
a piece on water.

*To show the Changes that Air undergoes in the Lungs.*—1. Fill a quart jar even full of water.
Place a piece of cardboard over its mouth and invert, without spilling, in a pan of water.
Inserting a tube under the jar, blow into it air that has been held as long as possible in
the lungs. When filled with air, remove the jar from the pan, keeping the top well covered.
Slipping the cover slightly to one side, insert a burning splinter and observe that the flame
is extinguished. This proves the absence of sufficient oxygen to support combustion. Pour in
a little limewater(43) and shake to mix with the air. The change of the limewater to a milky
white color proves the presence of carbon dioxide.

                                [Fig. 50]

 Fig. 50—*Apparatus* for showing changes which air undergoes while in the
                                  lungs.

2. The effects illustrated in experiment 1 may be shown in a somewhat more striking manner
as follows: Fill two bottles of the same size each one fourth full of limewater and fit each
with a two-holed rubber stopper (Fig. 50). Fit into each stopper one short and one long glass
tube, the long tube extending below the limewater. Connect the short tube of one bottle and
the long tube of the other bottle with a Y-tube. Now breathe slowly three or four times through
the Y-tube. It will be found that the inspired air passes through one bottle and the expired
air through the other. Compare the effect upon the limewater in the two bottles. Insert a small
burning splinter into the top of each bottle and note result. What differences between inspired
and expired air are thus shown?

3. Blow the breath against a cold window pane. Note and account for the collection of moisture.

4. Note the temperature of the room as shown by a thermometer. Now breathe several times upon
the bulb, noting the rise in the mercury. What does this experiment show the body to be losing
through the breath?

*To show Changes in the Thoracic Cavity.*—1. To a yard- or meter-stick, attach two vertical
strips, each about eight inches long, as shown in Fig. 51. The piece at the end should be secured
firmly in place by screws or nails. The other should be movable. With this contrivance measure
the sideward and forward expansion of a boy’s thorax. Take the diameter first during a complete
inspiration and then during a complete expiration, reading the difference. Compare the forward
with the sideward expansion.

                                [Fig. 51]

            Fig. 51—*Apparatus* for measuring chest expansion.

2. With a tape-line take the circumference of the chest when all the air possible has been
expelled from the lungs. Take it again when the lungs have been fully inflated. The difference
is now read as the chest expansion.

                                [Fig. 52]

 Fig. 52—*Simple apparatus* for illustrating the action of the diaphragm.

*To illustrate the Action of the Diaphragm.*—Remove the bottom from a large bottle having a
small neck. (Scratch a deep mark with a file and hold on the end of this mark a hot poker.
When the glass cracks, lead the crack around the bottle by heating about one half inch in advance
of it.) Place the bottle in a large glass jar filled two thirds full of water (Fig. 52). Let
the space above the water represent the chest cavity and the water surface represent the diaphragm.
Raise the bottle, noting that the water falls, thereby increasing the space and causing air
to enter. Then lower the bottle, noting the opposite effect. To show the movement of the air
in and out of the bottle, hold with the hand (or arrange a support for) a burning splinter
over the mouth of the bottle.

*To estimate the Capacity of the Lungs.*—Breathing as naturally as possible, expel the air
into a spirometer (lung tester) during a period, say of ten respirations (Fig. 53). Note the
total amount of air exhaled and the number of "breaths" and calculate the amount of air exhaled
at each breath. This is called the tidal air.

                                [Fig. 53]

Fig. 53—*Apparatus* (spirometer) for measuring the capacity of the lungs.

2. After an ordinary inspiration empty the lungs as completely as possible into the spirometer,
noting the quantity exhaled. This amount, less the tidal air, is known as the reserve air.
The air which is now left in the lungs is called the residual air. On the theory that this
is equal in amount to the reserve air, calculate the capacity of the lungs in an ordinary inspiration.

3. Now fill the lungs to the full expansion of the chest and empty them as completely as possible
into the spirometer, noting the amount expelled. This, less the tidal air and the reserve air,
is called the complemental air. Now calculate the total capacity of the lungs.

CHAPTER VIII - PASSAGE OF OXYGEN THROUGH THE BODY

What is the nature of oxygen? What is its purpose in the body and how does it serve this purpose?
How is the blood able to take it up at the lungs and give it off at the cells? What becomes
of it after being used? These are questions touching the maintenance of life and they deserve
careful consideration.

*Nature of Oxygen.*—To understand the relation which oxygen sustains to the body we must acquaint
ourselves with certain of its chemical properties. It is an element(44) of intense affinity,
or combining power, and is one of the most active of all chemical agents. It is able to combine
with most of the other elements to form chemical compounds. A familiar example of its combining
action is found in ordinary combustion, or burning. On account of the part it plays in this
process, oxygen is called the supporter of combustion; but it supports combustion by the simple
method of uniting. The ashes that are left and the invisible gases that escape into the atmosphere
are the compounds formed by the uniting process. It thus appears that oxygen, in common with
the other elements, may exist in either of two forms:

1. That in which it is in a free, or uncombined, condition—the form in which it exists in the
atmosphere.

2. That in which it is a part of compounds, such as the compounds formed in combustion.

Oxygen manifests its activity to the best advantage when it is in a free state, or, more accurately
speaking, when it is passing from the free state into one of combination. It is separated from
its compounds and brought again into a free state by overcoming with heat, or some other force,
the affinity which causes it to unite.

*How Oxygen unites.*—The chemist believes oxygen, as well as all other substances, to be made
up of exceedingly small particles, called atoms. The atoms do not exist singly in either elements
or compounds, but are united with each other to form groups of atoms that are called molecules.
In an element the molecules are made up of one kind of atoms, but in a compound the molecules
are made up of as many kinds of atoms as there are elements in the compound. Changes in the
composition of substances (called chemical changes) are due to rearrangements of the atoms
and the formation of new molecules. The atoms, therefore, are the units of chemical combination.
In the formation of new compounds they unite, and in the breaking up of existing compounds
they separate.

The uniting of oxygen is no exception to this general law. All of its combinations are brought
about by the uniting of its atoms. In the burning of carbon, for example, the atoms of oxygen
and the atoms of carbon unite, forming molecules of the compound known as carbon dioxide. The
chemical formula of this compound, which is CO2, shows the proportion in which the atoms unite—one
atom of carbon uniting with two atoms of oxygen in each of the molecules. The affinity of oxygen
for other elements, and the affinity of other elements for oxygen, and for each other, resides
in their atoms.

*Oxidation.*—The uniting of oxygen with other elements is termed oxidation. This may take place
slowly or rapidly, the two rates being designated as slow oxidation and rapid oxidation. Examples
of slow oxidation are found in certain kinds of decay and in the rusting of iron. Combustion
is an example of rapid oxidation. Slow and rapid oxidation, while differing widely in their
effects upon surrounding objects, are alike in that both produce heat and form compounds of
oxygen. In slow oxidation, however, the heat may come off so gradually that it is not observed.

*Movement of Oxygen through the Body.*—Oxygen has been shown in the preceding chapters to pass
from the lungs into the blood and later to leave the blood and, passing through the lymph,
to enter the cells. That oxygen does not become a permanent constituent of the cells is shown
by the constancy of the body weight. Nearly two pounds of oxygen per day are known to enter
the cells of the average-sized person. If this became a permanent part of the cells, the body
would increase in weight from day to day. Since the body weight remains constant, or nearly
so, we must conclude that oxygen leaves the body about as fast as it enters. Oxygen enters
the body as a free element. The form in which it leaves the body will be understood when we
realize the purpose which it serves and the method by which it serves this purpose.

*Purpose of Oxygen in the Body.*—The question may be raised: Is it possible for oxygen to serve
a purpose in the body without remaining in it? This, of course, depends upon what the purpose
is. That it is possible for oxygen to serve a purpose and at the same time pass on through
the place where it serves that purpose, is seen by studying the combustion in an ordinary stove
(Fig. 54). Oxygen enters at the draft and for the most part passes out at the flue, but in
passing through the stove it unites with, or oxidizes, the fuel, causing the combustion which
produces the heat.

                                [Fig. 54]

            Fig. 54—*Coal stove* illustrating rapid oxidation.

Now it is found that certain chemical processes, mainly oxidations, are taking place in the
body. These produce the heat for keeping it warm and also supply other forms of energy,(45)
including motion. It is the purpose of oxygen to keep up these oxidations and, by so doing,
to aid in supplying the body with energy. It serves this purpose in much the same way that
it supports combustion, i.e., by uniting with, or oxidizing, materials derived from foods that
are present in the cells.

*Does Oxygen serve Other Purposes?*—It has been suggested that oxygen may serve the purpose
of oxidizing, or destroying, substances that are injurious and of acting, in this way, as a
purifying agent in the body. In support of this view is the natural tendency of oxygen to unite
with substances and the well-known fact that oxygen is an important natural agent in purifying
water. It seems probable, therefore, that it may to a slight extent serve this purpose in the
body. It is probable also that oxygen aids through its chemical activity in the formation of
compounds which are to become a part of the cells. Both of these uses, however, are of minor
importance when compared with the main use of oxygen, which is that of an aid in supplying
energy to the body.

*Oxygen and the Maintenance of Life.*—In the supplying of energy to the body, one of the conditions
necessary to the maintenance of life is provided. Because oxygen is necessary to this process,
and because death quickly results when the supply of it is cut off, oxygen is frequently called
the supporter of life. This idea is misleading, for oxygen has no more to do with the maintenance
of life than have the food materials with which it unites. Life appears to be more dependent
upon oxygen than upon food, simply because the supply of it in the body at any time is exceedingly
small. Being continually surrounded by an atmosphere containing free oxygen, the body depends
upon this as a constant source of supply, and does not store it up. Food, on the other hand,
is taken in excess of the body’s needs and stored in the various tissues, the supply being
sufficient to last for several days. When the supply of either oxygen or food is exhausted
in the body, life must cease.

*The Oxygen Movement a Necessity.*—Since free oxygen is required for keeping up the chemical
changes in the cells, and since it ceases to be free as soon as it goes into combination, its
continuous movement through the body is a necessity. The oxygen compounds must be removed as
fast as formed in order to make room for more free oxygen. This movement has already been studied
in connection with the blood and the organs of respiration, but the consideration of certain
details has been deferred till now. By what means and in what form is the oxygen passed to
and from the cells?

*Passage of Oxygen through the Blood.*—In serving its purpose at the cells, the oxygen passes
twice through the blood—once as it goes toward the cells and again as it passes from the cells
to the exterior of the body:

Passage toward the Cells.—This is effected mainly through the hemoglobin of the red corpuscles.
At the lungs the oxygen and the hemoglobin form a weak chemical compound that breaks up and
liberates the oxygen when it reaches the capillaries in the tissues. The separation of the
oxygen from the hemoglobin at the tissues appears to be due to two causes: first, to the weakness
of the chemical attraction between the atoms of oxygen and the atoms that make up the hemoglobin
molecule; and second, to a difference in the so-called oxygen pressure at the lungs and at
the tissues.(46)

The attraction of the oxygen and the hemoglobin is sufficient to cause them to unite where
the oxygen pressure is more than one half pound to the square inch, but it is not sufficiently
strong to cause them to unite or to prevent their separation, if already united, where the
oxygen pressure is less than one half pound to the square inch. The oxygen pressure at the
lungs, which amounts to nearly three pounds to the square inch, easily causes the oxygen and
the hemoglobin to unite, while the almost complete absence of any oxygen pressure at the tissues,
permits their separation. The blood in its circulation constantly flows from the place of high
oxygen pressure at the lungs to the place of low oxygen pressure at the tissues and, in so
doing, loads up with oxygen at one place and unloads it at the other (Fig. 55).

Passage from the Cells.—Since oxygen leaves the free state at the cells and becomes a part
of compounds, we are able to trace it from the body only by following the course of these compounds.
Three waste compounds of importance are formed at the cells—carbon dioxide (CO2), water (H2O),
and urea (N2H4CO). The first is formed by the union of oxygen with carbon, the second by its
union with hydrogen, and the third by its union with nitrogen, hydrogen, and carbon. These
compounds are carried by the blood to the organs of excretion, where they are removed from
the body. The water leaves the body chiefly as a liquid, the urea as a solid dissolved in water,
and the carbon dioxide as a gas. The passage of carbon dioxide through the blood requires special
consideration.

                                [Fig. 55]

   Fig. 55—*Diagram illustrating movement, of oxygen and carbon dioxide
  through the body* (S.D. Magers). Each moves from a place of relatively
         high to a place of relatively low pressure. (See text.)

*Passage of Carbon Dioxide through the Blood.*—Part of the carbon dioxide is dissolved in the
plasma of the blood, and part of it is in weak chemical combination with substances found in
the plasma and in the corpuscles. Its passage through the blood is accounted for in the same
way as the passage of the oxygen. Its ability to dissolve in liquids and to enter into chemical
combination varies as the carbon dioxide pressure(47) This in turn varies with the amount of
the carbon dioxide, which is greatest at the cells (where it is formed), less in the blood,
and still less in the lungs. Because of these differences, the blood is able to take it up
at the cells and release it at the lungs (Fig. 55).

                                [Fig. 56]

Fig. 56—*Soap bubble* floating in a vessel of carbon dioxide, illustrating
       the difference in weight between air and carbon dioxide gas.

*Properties of Carbon Dioxide.*—Carbon dioxide is a colorless gas with little or no odor. It
is classed as a heavy gas, being about one third heavier than air(48) (Fig. 56). It does not
support combustion, but on the contrary is used to some extent to extinguish fires. It is formed
by the oxidation of carbon in the body, and by the combustion of carbon outside of the body.
It is also formed by the decay of animal and vegetable matter. From these sources it is continually
finding its way into the atmosphere. Although not a poisonous gas, carbon dioxide may, if it
surround the body, shut out the supply of oxygen and cause death.(49)

*Final Disposition of Carbon Dioxide.*—It is readily seen that the union of carbon and oxygen,
which is continually removing oxygen from the air and replacing it with carbon dioxide, tends
to make the whole atmosphere deficient in the one and to have an excess of the other. This
tendency is counteracted through the agency of vegetation. Green plants absorb the carbon dioxide
from the air, decompose it, build the carbon into compounds (starch, etc.) that become a part
of the plant, and return the free oxygen to the air (Fig. 57). In doing this, they not only
preserve the necessary proportion of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, but also
put the carbon and oxygen in such a condition that they can again unite. The force which enables
the plant cells to decompose the carbon dioxide is supplied by the sunlight (Chapter XII).

                                [Fig. 57]

Fig. 57—*Under surface* of a geranium leaf showing breathing pores, highly
                            magnified (O.H.).

*Summary.*—Oxygen, by uniting with materials at the cells, keeps up a condition of chemical
activity (oxidation) in the body. This supplies heat and the other forms of bodily energy.
Entering as a free element, oxygen leaves the body as a part of the waste compounds which it
helps to form. The free oxygen is transported from the lungs to the cells by means of the hemoglobin
of the red corpuscles, while the combined oxygen in carbon dioxide and other compounds from
the cells is carried mainly by the plasma. The limited supply of free oxygen in the body at
any time makes necessary its continuous introduction into the body.

*Exercises.*—1. Describe the properties of oxygen. How does it unite with other elements? How
does it support combustion?

2. State the purpose of oxygen in the body. What properties enable it to fulfill this purpose?

3. What is the proof that oxygen does not remain permanently in the body? How does the oxygen
entering the body differ from the same oxygen as it leaves the body?

4. What is the necessity for the continuous introduction of oxygen into the body, while food
is introduced only at intervals?

5. How are the red corpuscles able to take up and give off oxygen? How is the plasma able to
take up and give off carbon dioxide?

6. If thirty cubic inches of air pass from the lungs at each expiration and 4.5 per cent of
this is carbon dioxide, calculate the number of cubic feet of the gas expelled in twenty-four
hours, estimating the number of respirations at eighteen per minute.

7. What is the weight of this volume of carbon dioxide, if one cubic foot weigh 1.79 ounces?

8. What portion of this weight is oxygen and what carbon, the ratio by weight of carbon to
oxygen in carbon dioxide being twelve to thirty-two?

9. What is the final disposition of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere?

PRACTICAL WORK

*To show the Difference between Free Oxygen and Oxygen in Combination.*—Examine some crystals
of potassium chlorate (KClO3). They contain oxygen in combination with potassium and chlorine.
Place a few of these in a small test tube and heat strongly in a gas or alcohol flame. The
crystals first melt, and the liquid which they form soon appears to boil. If a splinter, having
a spark on the end, is now inserted in the tube, it is kindled into a flame. This shows the
presence of free oxygen, the heat having caused the potassium chlorate to decompose. The difference
between free and combined oxygen may also be shown by decomposing other compounds of oxygen,
such as water and mercuric oxide.

*Preparation and Properties of Oxygen.*—Intimately mix 3 grams (1/2 teaspoonful) of potassium
chlorate with half its bulk of manganese dioxide, and place the mixture in a large test tube.
Close the test tube with a tight-fitting stopper which bears a glass tube of sufficient length
and of the right shape to convey the escaping gas to a small trough or pan partly filled with
water, on the table. Fill four large-mouthed bottles with water and, by covering with cardboard,
invert each in the trough of water. Arrange the test tube conveniently for heating, letting
the end of the glass tube terminate under the mouth of one of the bottles (Fig. 58). Using
an alcohol lamp or a Bunsen burner, heat over the greater portion of the tube at first, but
gradually concentrate the flame upon the mixture. Do not heat too strongly, and when the gas
is coming off rapidly, remove the flame entirely, putting it back as the action slows down.
After all the bottles have been filled, remove the end of the glass tube from the water, but
leave the bottles of oxygen inverted in the trough until they are to be used. On removing the
bottles from the trough, keep the tops covered with wet cardboard.

                                [Fig. 58]

                Fig. 58—*Apparatus* for generating oxygen.

1. Examine a bottle of oxygen, noting its lack of color. Insert a small burning splinter in
the upper part of the bottle and observe the change in the rate of burning. The air contains
free oxygen, but it is diluted with nitrogen. Compare this with the undiluted oxygen in the
bottle as to effect in causing the splinter to burn.

2. In a second bottle of oxygen insert a splinter without the flame, but having a small spark
on the end. As soon as the oxygen kindles the spark into a flame, withdraw from the bottle
and blow out the flame, but again insert the spark. Repeat the experiment as long as the spark
is kindled by the oxygen into a flame. This experiment is usually performed as a test for undiluted
oxygen.

3. Make a hollow cavity in the end of a short piece of crayon. Fasten a wire to the crayon,
and fill the cavity with powdered sulphur. Ignite the sulphur in the flame of an alcohol lamp
or Bunsen burner, and lower it into a bottle of oxygen. Observe the change in the rate of burning,
the color of the flame, and the material formed in the bottle by the burning. The gas remaining
in the bottle is sulphur dioxide (SO2), formed by the uniting of the sulphur and the oxygen.

4. Bend a small loop on the end of a piece of picture wire. Heat the loop in a flame and insert
it in some powdered sulphur. Ignite the melted sulphur which adheres, and insert it quickly
in a bottle of oxygen. Observe the dark, brittle material which is formed by the burning of
the iron. It is a compound of the iron with oxygen, similar to iron rust, and formed by their
uniting.

*Preparation and Properties of Carbon Dioxide.*—1. (a) Attach a piece of carbon (charcoal)
no larger than the end of the thumb to a piece of wire. Ignite the charcoal in a hot flame
and lower it into a vessel of oxygen. Observe its combustion, letting it remain in the bottle
until it ceases to burn. Note that the burning has consumed a part of the carbon and has used
up the free oxygen. Has anything been formed in their stead?

(b) Remove the charcoal and add a little limewater. Cover the bottle with a piece of cardboard,
and bring the gas and the limewater in contact by shaking. Note any change in the color of
the limewater. If it turns white, the presence of carbon dioxide is proved.

2. Burn a splinter in a large vessel of air, keeping the top covered. Add limewater and shake.
Note and account for the result.

3. Place several pieces of marble (limestone) in a jar holding at least half a gallon. Barely
cover the marble with water, and then add hydrochloric acid until a gas is rapidly evolved.
This gas is carbon dioxide.

(a) Does it possess color?

(b) Insert a burning splinter to see if it supports combustion.

(c) Place a bottle of oxygen by the side of the vessel of carbon dioxide. Light a splinter
and extinguish the flame by lowering it into the vessel of carbon dioxide. Withdraw immediately,
and if a spark remains on the splinter, thrust it into the bottle of oxygen. Then insert the
relighted splinter into the carbon dioxide. Repeat several times, kindling the flame in one
gas and extinguishing it in the other. Finally show that the spark also may be extinguished
by holding the splinter a little longer in the carbon dioxide.

(d) Tip the jar containing the carbon dioxide over the mouth of a tumbler, as in pouring water,
though not far enough to spill the acid, and then insert a burning splinter in the tumbler.
Account for the result. Inference as to the weight of carbon dioxide.

                                [Fig. 59]

Fig. 59—*Simple apparatus* for illustrating passage of oxygen through the
                                  body.

(e) Review experiments (page 101) showing the presence of carbon dioxide in the breath.

*To illustrate the General Movement of Oxygen through the Body.*—Into a glass tube, six inches
in length and open at both ends, place several small lumps of charcoal (Fig. 59). Fit into
one end of this tube, by means of a stopper, a smaller glass tube which is bent at right angles
and which is made to pass through a close-fitting stopper to the bottom of a small bottle.
Another small tube is fitted into a second hole in this stopper, but terminating near the top
of the bottle, and to this is connected a rubber tube about eighteen inches in length. The
arrangement is now such that by sucking air from the top of the bottle, it is made to enter
at the distant end of the tube containing the charcoal. After filling the bottle one third
full of limewater, heat the tube containing the charcoal until it begins to glow. Then suck
the air through the apparatus (as in smoking, without drawing it into the lungs), observing
what happens both in the tube and in the bottle. What are the proofs that the oxygen, in passing
through the tube, unites with the carbon, forms carbon dioxide, and liberates energy? Compare
the changes which the oxygen undergoes while passing through the tube with the changes which
it undergoes in passing through the body.

CHAPTER IX - FOODS AND THE THEORY OF DIGESTION

The body is constantly in need of new material. Oxidation, as shown in the preceding chapter,
rapidly destroys substances at the cells, and these have to be replaced. Upon this renewal
depends the supply of energy. Moreover, there is found to be an actual breaking down of the
living material, or protoplasm, in the body. While this does not destroy the cells, as is sometimes
erroneously stated, it reduces the quantity of the protoplasm and makes necessary a process
of repair, or rebuilding, of the tissues. This also requires new material. Finally, substances,
such as water and common salt, are required for the aid which they render in the general work
of the body. Since these are constantly being lost in one way or another, they also must be
replaced. These different needs of the body for new materials are supplied through

*The Foods.*—Foods are substances that, on being taken into the healthy body, are of assistance
in carrying on its work. This definition properly includes oxygen, but the term is usually
limited to substances introduced through the digestive organs. As suggested above, foods serve
at least three purposes:

1. They, with oxygen, supply the body with energy.

2. They provide materials for rebuilding the tissues.

3. They supply materials that aid directly or indirectly in the general work of the body.

*The Simple Foods, or Nutrients.*—From the great variety of things that are eaten, it might
appear that many different kinds of substances are suitable for food. When our various animal
and vegetable foods are analyzed, however, they are found to be similar in composition and
to contain only some five or six kinds of materials that are essentially different. While certain
foods may contain only a single one of these, most of the foods are mixtures of two or more.
These few common materials which, in different proportions, form the different things that
are eaten, are variously referred to as simple foods, food-stuffs, and nutrients, the last
name being the one generally preferred. The different classes of nutrients are as follows:

             Nutrients:
              Proteids
            (Albuminoids)
            Carbohydrates
                Fats
            Mineral salts
                Water

It is now necessary to become somewhat familiar with the different nutrients and the purposes
which they serve in the body.

*Proteids.*—The proteids are obtained in part from the animal and in part from the plant kingdom,
there being several varieties. A well-known variety, called albumin, is found in the white
of eggs and in the plasma of the blood, while the muscles contain an abundance of another variety,
known as myosin. Cheese consists largely of a kind of proteid, called casein, which is also
present in milk, but in a more diluted form. If a mouthful of wheat is chewed for some time,
most of it is dissolved and swallowed, but there remains in the mouth a sticky, gum-like substance.
This is gluten, a form of proteid which occurs in different grains. Again, certain vegetables,
as beans, peas, and peanuts, are rich in a kind of proteid which is called legumen.

Proteids are compounds of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and a small per cent of sulphur.
Certain ones (the nucleo-proteids from grains) also contain phosphorus. All of the proteids
are highly complex compounds and form a most important class of nutrients.

*Purposes of Proteids.*—The chief purpose of proteids in the body is to rebuild the tissues.
Not only do they supply all of the main elements in the tissues, but they are of such a nature
chemically that they are readily built into the protoplasm. They are absolutely essential to
life, no other nutrients being able to take their place. An animal deprived of them exhausts
the proteids in its body and then dies. In addition to rebuilding the tissues, proteids may
also be oxidized to supply the body with energy.

*Albuminoids* form a small class of foods, of minor importance, which are similar to proteids
in composition, but differ from them in being unable to rebuild the tissues. Gelatin, a constituent
of soup and obtained from bones and connective tissue by boiling, is the best known of the
albuminoid foods. On account of the nitrogen which they contain, proteids and albuminoids are
often classed together as nitrogenous foods.

*Carbohydrates.*—While the carbohydrates are not so essential to life as are the proteids,
they are of very great value in the body. They are composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen,
and are obtained mainly from plants. There are several varieties of carbohydrates, but they
are similar in composition. All of those used as food to any great extent are starch and certain
kinds of sugar.

*Starch* is the carbohydrate of greatest importance as a food, and it is also the one found
in the greatest abundance. All green plants form more or less starch, and many of them store
it in their leaves, seeds, or roots (Fig. 60). From these sources it is obtained as food. Glycogen,
a substance closely resembling starch, is found in the body of the oyster. It is also formed
in the liver and muscles of the higher animals, being prepared from the sugar of the blood,
and is stored by them as reserve food (Chapter XI). Glycogen is, on this account, called animal
starch. Starch on being eaten is first changed to sugar, after which it may be converted into
glycogen in the liver and in the muscles.

                                [Fig. 60]

   Fig. 60—*Starch grains* in cells of potato as they appear under the
                    microscope. (See practical work.)

*Sugars.*—There are several varieties of sugar, but the important ones used as foods fall into
one or the other of two classes, known as double sugars (disaccharides) and single sugars (monosaccharides).
To the first class belong cane sugar, found in sugar cane and beets, milk sugar, found in sweet
milk, and maltose, a kind of sugar which is made from starch by the action of malt. The important
members of the second class are grape sugar, or dextrose, and fruit sugar, or levulose, both
of which are found in fruits and in honey.

The most important of all sugars, so far as its use in the body is concerned, is dextrose.
To this form all the other sugars, and starch also, are converted before they are finally used
in the body. The close chemical relation between the different carbohydrates makes such a conversion
easily possible.

*Fats.*—The fats used as foods belong to one or the other of two classes, known as solid fats
and oils. The solid fats are derived chiefly from animals, and the oils are obtained mostly
from plants. Butter, the fat of meats, olive oil, and the oil of nuts are the fats of greatest
importance as foods. Fats, like the carbohydrates, are composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen.
They are rather complex chemical compounds, though not so complex as proteids. Since neither
fats nor carbohydrates contain nitrogen, they are frequently classed together as non-nitrogenous
foods.

*Purpose Served by Carbohydrates, Fats, and Albuminoids.*—These classes of nutrients all serve
the common purpose of supplying energy. By uniting with oxygen at the cells, they supply heat
and the other forms of bodily force. This is perhaps their only purpose.(50) Proteids also
serve this purpose, but they are not so well adapted to supplying energy as are the carbohydrates
and the fats. In the first place they do not completely oxidize and therefore do not supply
so much energy; and, in the second place, they form waste products that are removed with difficulty
from the body.

*Mineral Salts and their Uses.*—Mineral salts are found in small quantities in all of the more
common food materials, and, as a rule, find their way into the body unnoticed. They supply
the elements which are found in the body in small quantities and serve a variety of purposes.(51)
Calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate are important constituents of the bones and teeth;
and the salts containing iron renew the hemoglobin of the blood. Others perform important functions
in the vital processes. The mineral compound of greatest importance perhaps is sodium chloride,
or common salt.(52) This is a natural constituent of most of our foods, and is also added to
food in its preparation for the table. When it is withheld from animals for a considerable
length of time, they suffer intensely and finally die. It is necessary in the blood and lymph
to keep their constituents in solution, and is thought to play an important rôle in the chemical
changes of the cells. It is constantly leaving the body as a waste product and must be constantly
supplied in small quantities in the foods.

*Importance of Water.*—Water finds its way into the body as a pure liquid, as a part of such
mixtures as coffee, chocolate, and milk, and as a constituent of all our solid foods. (See
table of foods, page 126.) It is also formed in the body by the oxidation of hydrogen. It passes
through the body unchanged, and is constantly being removed by all the organs of excretion.
Though water does not liberate energy in the body nor build up the tissues in the sense that
other foods do, it is as necessary to the maintenance of life as oxygen or proteids. It occurs
in all the tissues, and forms about 70 per cent of the entire weight of the body. Its presence
is necessary for the interchange of materials at the cells and for keeping the tissues soft
and pliable. As it enters the body, it carries digested food substances with it, and as it
leaves it is loaded with wastes. Its chief physiological work, which is that of a transporter
of material, depends upon its ability to dissolve substances and to flow readily from place
to place.

*Relative Quantity of Nutrients Needed.*—Proteids, carbohydrates, and fats are the nutrients
that supply most of the body’s nourishment. The most hygienic diet is the one which supplies
the proteids in sufficient quantity to rebuild the tissues and the carbohydrates and fats in
the right amounts to supply the body with energy. Much experimenting has been done with a view
to determining these proportions, but the results so far are not entirely satisfactory. According
to some of the older estimates, a person of average size requires for his daily use five ounces
of proteid, two and one half ounces of fat, and fifteen ounces of carbohydrate. Recent investigations
of this problem seem to show that the body is as well, if not better, nourished by a much smaller
amount of proteid—not more than two and one half ounces (60 grams) daily.(53)

While there is probably no necessity for the healthy individual’s taking his proteid, fat,
and carbohydrate in exact proportions (if the proportions best suited to his body were known),
the fact needs to be emphasized that proteids, although absolutely necessary, should form but
a small part (not over one fifth) of the daily bill of fare. In recognition of this fact is
involved a principle of health and also one of economy. The proteids, especially those in meats,
are the most expensive of the nutrients, whereas the carbohydrates, which should form the greater
bulk of one’s food, are the least expensive.

*Effects of a One-sided Diet.*—The plan of the body is such as to require a mixed diet, and
all of the great classes of nutrients are necessary. If one could subsist on any single class,
it would be proteids, for proteids are able both to rebuild tissue and to supply energy. But
if proteids are eaten much in excess of the body’s need for rebuilding the tissues, and this
excess is oxidized for supplying energy, a strain is thrown upon the organs of excretion, because
of the increase in the wastes. Not only is there danger of overworking certain of these organs
(the liver and kidneys), but the wastes may linger too long in the body, causing disorder and
laying the foundation for disease. On the other hand, if an insufficient amount of proteid
is taken, the tissues are improperly nourished, and one is unable to exert his usual strength.
What is true of the proteids is true, though in a different way, of the other great classes
of foods. A diet which is lacking in proteid, carbohydrate, or fat, or which has any one of
them in excess, is not adapted to the requirements of the body.

*Composition of the Food Materials.*—One who intelligently provides the daily bill of fare
must have some knowledge of the nature and quantity of the nutrients present in the different
materials used as food. This information is supplied by the chemist, who has made extensive
analyses for this purpose. Results of such analyses are shown in Table 1 (page 126), which
gives the percentage of proteids, fats, carbohydrates, water, and mineral salts in the edible
portions of the more common of our foods.

                                [Fig. 61]

 Fig. 61—Relative proportions of different nutrients in well-known foods.

*Food Supply to the Table.*—The main problem in supplying the daily bill of fare is that of
securing through the different food materials the requisite amounts of proteids, carbohydrates,
and fats. In this matter a table showing the composition of foods can be used to great advantage.
Consulting the table on page 126, it is seen that large per cents of proteids are supplied
by lean meat, eggs, cheese, beans, peas, peanuts, and oatmeal, while fat is in excess in fat
meat, butter, and nuts (Fig. 61). Carbohydrates are supplied in abundance by potatoes, rice,
corn, sugar, and molasses. The different cereals also contain a large percentage of carbohydrates
in the form of starch.

                                  TABLE I. THE COMPOSITION OF
                                       FOOD MATERIALS(54)
Food         Water      Solids     Proteid    Fat        Carbohydrates   Mineral    Heat
Materials                                                                Matter     Value of
                                                                                    One
                                                                                    Pound
Animal       Per cent   Per cent   Per cent   Per cent   Per cent        Per cent   Calories(55)
foods,
edible
portion
Beef:        63.9       36.1       19.5       15.6       ...             1          1020
Shoulder
       Rib   48.1       51.9       15.4       35.6       ...             .9         1790
   Sirloin   60         40         18.5       20.5       ...             1          1210
     Round   68.2       31.8       20.5       10.1       ...             1.2        805
Veal:        68.8       31.2       20.2       9.8        ...             ...        790
Shoulder
Mutton:      61.8       38.2       18.3       19         ...             .9         1140
Leg
      Loin   49.3       50.7       15         35         ...             .7         1755
Pork:        50.3       49.7       16         32.8       ...             .9         1680
Shoulder
   Ham,      41.5       58.5       16.7       39.1       ...             2.7        1960
   salted,
   smoked
    Fat,     12.1       87.9       .9         82.8       ...             4.2        3510
    salted
Sausage:     41.5       58.8       13.8       42.8       ...             2.2        2065
Pork
Bologna      62.4       37.6       18.8       42.8       ...             3          1015
Chicken      72.2       27.8       24.4       1          ...             1.4        540
Eggs         73.8       26.2       14.9       10.5       ...             .8         721
Milk         87         13         3.6        4          4.7             .7         325
Butter       10.5       89         .6         85         .5              .3         3515
Cheese:      30.2       69.8       28.3       35.5       1.8             4.2        2070
Full
cream
 Skim milk   41.3       58.7       38.4       6.8        6.9             4.6        1165
Fish:        82.6       17.4       15.8       .5         ...             1.2        310
Codfish
    Salmon   63.6       36.4       21.6       13.4       ...             1.4        965
   Oysters   87.1       12.9       6          1.2        3.7             2          230
Vegetable
foods
Wheat        12.5       87.5       11         1.1        74.9            .5         1645
flour
Graham       13.1       86.9       11.7       1.7        71.7            1.8        1635
flour
(wheat)
Rye flour    13.1       86.9       6.7        .8         78.7            .7         1625
Buckwheat    14.6       85.4       6.9        1.4        76.1            1          1605
flour
Oatmeal      7.6        92.4       15.1       7.1        68.2            2          1850
Cornmeal     15         85         9.2        3.8        70.6            1.4        1645
Rice         12.4       87.6       7.4        .4         79.4            .4         1630
Peas         12.3       87.7       26.7       1.7        56.4            2.9        1565
Beans        12.6       87.4       23.1       2          59.2            3.1        1615
Potatoes     78.9       21.1       2.1        .1         17.9            1          375
Tomatoes     95.3       4.7        .8         .4         3.2             .3         80
Apples       83.2       16.8       .2         .4         15.9            .3         315
Sugar,       2          98         ...        ...        97.8            .3         1820
granulated
White        32.3       67.7       8.2        1.7        56.3            .0         1280
bread
(wheat)
Peanuts      9.2        90.8       25.8       24.4       38.6            2          2560
Almonds      4.8        95.2       21         17.3       54.9            2          3030
Walnuts      2.5        97.5       16.6       16.1       63.4            1.4        3285
(English)

Variety in the selection of foods for the table is an essential feature, but this should not
increase either the work or the expense of supplying the meals. Each single meal can, and should,
be simple in itself and, at the same time, differ sufficiently from the meal preceding and
the one following to give the necessary variety in the course of the day. The bill of fare
should, of course, include fruits (for their tonic effects) and very small amounts perhaps
of substances which stimulate the appetite, such as pepper, mustard, etc., known as condiments.

*Purity of Food.*—The fact that many of the food substances are perishable makes it possible
for them to be eaten in a slightly decayed condition. Such substances are decidedly unwholesome
(some containing poisons) and should be promptly rejected. Not only do fresh meats, fruits,
and vegetables need careful inspection, but canned and preserved goods as well. If canned foods
are imperfectly sealed or if not thoroughly cooked in the canning process, they decay and the
acids which they generate act on the metals lining the cans, forming poisonous compounds. The
contents of "tin" cans should for this reason be transferred to other vessels as soon as opened.

Foods are also rendered impure or weakened through adulteration, the watering of milk being
a familiar example. The manufacture of jellies, preserves, sirups, and various kinds of pickles
and condiments has perhaps afforded the largest field for adulterations, although it is possible
to adulterate nearly all of the leading articles of food. A long step in the prevention of
food and drug adulteration was taken in this country by the passage of the Pure Food Law. By
forcing manufacturers of foods and medicines to state on printed labels the composition of
their products, this law has made it possible for the consumer to know what he is purchasing
and putting into his body.

*Alcohol not a Food.*—Many people in this and other countries drink in different beverages,
such as whisky, beer, wine, etc., a varying amount of alcohol. This substance has a temporary
stimulating or exciting effect, and the claim has been made that it serves as a food. Recently
it has been shown that alcohol when introduced into the body in small quantities and in a greatly
diluted form, is nearly all oxidized, yielding energy as does fat or sugar. If no harmful effects
attended the use of alcohol, it might on this account be classed as a food. But alcohol is
known to be harmful to the body. When used in large quantities, it injures nearly all of the
tissues, and when taken habitually, even in small doses, it leads to the formation of the alcohol
habit which is now recognized and treated as a disease. This and other facts show that alcohol
is not adapted to the body plan of taking on and using new material (Chapter XI), and no substance
lacking in this respect can properly be classed as a food.(56) Instead of classing alcohol
as a food, it should be placed in that long list of substances which are introduced into the
body for special purposes and which are known by the general name of

*Drugs.*—Drugs act strongly upon the body and tend to bring about unusual and unnatural results.
Their use should in no way be confused with that of foods. If taken in health, they tend to
disturb the physiological balance of the body by unduly increasing or diminishing the action
of the different organs. In disease where this balance is already disturbed, they may be administered
for their counteractive effects, but always under the advice and direction of a physician.
Knowing the nature of the disturbance which the drug produces, the physician can administer
it to advantage, should the body be out of physiological balance, or diseased. Not only are
drugs of no value in health, but their use is liable to do much harm.

NATURE OF DIGESTION

Before the nutrients can be oxidized at the cells, or built into the protoplasm, they undergo
a number of changes. These are necessary for their entrance into the body, for their distribution
by the blood and the lymph, and for the purposes which they finally serve. The first of these
changes is preparatory to the entrance of the nutrients and is known as digestion. The organs
which bring about this change, called digestive organs, have a special construction which adapts
them to their work. It will assist materially in understanding these organs if we first learn
something of the nature of the work which they have to perform.

*How the Nutrients get into the Body.*—The nature of digestion is determined by the conditions
affecting the entrance of nutrients into the body. Food in the stomach and air in the lungs,
although surrounded by the body, are still outside of what is called the body proper. To gain
entrance into the body proper, a substance must pass through the body wall. This consists of
the skin on the outside and of the mucous linings of the air passages and other tubes and cavities
which are connected with the external surface.

To get from the digestive organs into the blood, the nutrients must pass through the mucous
membrane lining these organs and also the walls of blood or lymph vessels. Only liquid materials
can make this passage. It is necessary, therefore, to reduce to the liquid state all nutrients
not already in that condition. This reduction to the liquid state constitutes the digestive
process.

*How Substances are Liquefied.*—While the reduction of solids to the liquid state is accomplished
in some instances by heating them until they melt, they are more frequently reduced to this
state by subjecting them to the action of certain liquids, called solvents. Through the action
of the solvent the minute particles of the solid separate from each other and disappear from
view. (Shown in dropping salt in water.) At the same time they mix with the solvent, forming
a solution, from which they separate only with great difficulty. For this reason solids in
solution can diffuse through porous partitions along with the solvents in which they are dissolved
(page 73).

By digestion the nutrients are reduced to the form of a solution. The process is, simply speaking,
one of dissolving. The liquid employed as the digestive solvent is water. The different nutrients
dissolve in water, mixing with it to form a solution which is then passed into the body proper.

*Digestion not a Simple Process.*—Digestion is by no means a simple process, such, for instance,
as the dissolving of salt or sugar in water. These, being soluble in water, dissolve at once
on being mixed with a sufficient amount of this liquid. The majority of the nutrients, however,
are insoluble in water and are unaffected by it when acting alone. Fats, starch, and most of
the proteids do not dissolve in water. Before these can be dissolved they have to be changed
chemically and converted into substances that are soluble in water. This complicates the process
and prevents the use of water alone as the digestive solvent.

*A Similar Case.*—If a piece of limestone be placed in water, it does not dissolve, because
it is insoluble in water. If hydrochloric acid is now added to the water, the limestone is
soon dissolved (Fig. 62). (See Practical Work.) It seems at first thought that the acid dissolves
the limestone, but this is not the case. The acid produces a chemical change in the limestone
(calcium carbonate) and converts it into a compound (calcium chloride) that is soluble in water.
As fast as this is formed it is dissolved by the water, which is the real solvent in the case.
The acid simply plays the part of a chemical converter.

                                [Fig. 62]

 Fig. 62—The dissolving of limestone in water containing acid, suggesting
            the double action in the digestion of most foods.

*The Digestive Fluids.*—Several fluids—saliva, gastric juice, pancreatic juice, bile, and intestinal
juice—are employed in the digestion of the food. The composition of these fluids is in keeping
with the nature of the digestive process. While all of them have water for their most abundant
constituent, there are dissolved in the water small amounts of active chemical agents. It is
the work of these agents to convert the insoluble nutrients into substances that are soluble
in water. The digestive fluids are thus able to act in a double manner on the nutrients—to
change them chemically and to dissolve them. The chemical agents which bring about the changes
in the nutrients are called enzymes, or digestive ferments.

*Foods Classed with Reference to Digestive Changes.*—With reference to the changes which they
undergo during digestion, foods may be divided into three classes as follows:

1. Substances already in the liquid state and requiring no digestive action. Water and solutions
of simple foods in water belong to this class. Milk and liquid fats, or oils, do not belong
to this class.

2. Solid foods soluble in water. This class includes common salt and sugar. These require no
digestive action other than dissolving in water.

3. Foods that are insoluble in water. These have first to be changed into soluble substances,
after which they are dissolved.

*Summary.*—Materials called foods are introduced into the body for rebuilding the tissues,
supplying energy, and aiding in its general work. Only a few classes of substances, viz., proteids,
carbohydrates, fats, water, and some mineral compounds have all the qualities of foods and
are suitable for introduction into the body. Substances known as drugs, which may be used as
medicines in disease, should be avoided in health. Before foods can be passed into the body
proper, they must be converted into the liquid form, or dissolved. In this process, known as
digestion, water is the solvent; and certain chemical agents, called enzymes, convert the insoluble
nutrients into substances that are soluble in water.

*Exercises.*—1. How does oxidation at the cells make necessary the introduction of new materials
into the body?

2. What different purposes are served by the foods?

3. What is a nutrient? Name the important classes.

4. What are food materials? From what sources are they obtained?

5. Name the different kinds of proteids; the different kinds of carbohydrates. Why are proteids
called nitrogenous foods and fats and carbohydrates non-nitrogenous foods?

6. Show why life cannot be carried on without proteids; without water.

7. What per cents of proteid, fat, and carbohydrate are found in wheat flour, oatmeal, rice,
butter, potatoes, round beef, eggs, and peanuts?

8. State the objection to a meal consisting of beef, eggs, beans, bread, and butter; to one
consisting of potatoes, rice, bread, and butter. Which is the more objectionable of these meals
and why?

9. State the general plan of digestion.

10. Show that digestion is not a simple process like that of dissolving salt in water.

PRACTICAL WORK

*Elements supplied by the Foods.*—The following brief study will enable the pupil to identify
most of the elements present in the body and which have, therefore, to be supplied by the foods.

Carbon.—Examine pieces of charred wood, coke, or coal, and also the "lead" in lead pencils.
Show that the charred wood and the coal will burn. Recall experiment (page 114) showing that
carbon in burning forms carbon dioxide.

Hydrogen.—Fill a test tube one third full of strong hydrochloric acid and drop into it several
small scraps of zinc. The gas which is evolved is hydrogen. When the hydrogen is coming off
rapidly, bring a lighted splinter to the mouth of the tube. The gas should burn. Hold a cold
piece of glass over the flame and observe the deposit of moisture. Hydrogen in burning forms
water. Extinguish the flame by covering the top of the tube with a piece of cardboard. Now
let the escaping gas collect in a tumbler inverted over the tube. After holding the tumbler
in this position for two or three minutes, remove and, keeping inverted, thrust a lighted splinter
into it. (The gas should either burn or explode.) What does this experiment show relative to
the weight of hydrogen as compared with that of air?

Nitrogen.—Nitrogen forms about four fifths of the atmosphere, where, like oxygen, it exists
in a free state. It may be separated from the oxygen of an inclosed portion of air by causing
that gas to unite with phosphorus. Place a piece of phosphorus the size of a pea in a depression
in a flat piece of cork. (Handle phosphorus with wet fingers or with forceps.) Place the cork
on water and have ready a glass fruit jar holding not more than a quart. Ignite the phosphorus
with a hot wire and invert the jar over it, pushing the mouth below the surface of the water.
The phosphorus uniting with the oxygen fills the jar with white fumes of phosphoric oxide.
These soon dissolve in the water, leaving a clear gas above. This is nitrogen. Place a cardboard
under the mouth of the jar and turn it right side up, leaving in the water and keeping the
top covered. Light a splinter and, slipping the cover to one side, thrust the flame into the
jar of nitrogen, noting the effect. (Flame is extinguished.) Compare nitrogen with oxygen in
its relation to combustion. What purpose is served by each in the atmosphere?

Oxygen.—Review experiments (page 114) showing the properties of oxygen.

Phosphorus.—Examine a small piece of phosphorus, noting that it has to be kept under water.
Lay a small piece on the table and observe the tiny stream of white smoke rising from it, formed
by slow oxidation. Dissolve a piece as large as a pea in a teaspoonful of carbon disulphide
in a test tube, pour this on a piece of porous paper, and lay the paper on an iron support.
When the carbon disulphide evaporates the phosphorus takes fire spontaneously. (The heat from
the slow oxidation is sufficient to ignite the phosphorus in the finely divided condition.)
What is the most striking property of phosphorus? What purpose does it serve in the match?

Sulphur.—Examine some sulphur, noting its color and the absence of odor or taste. (Impure sulphur
may have an odor and a taste.) Burn a little sulphur in an iron spoon, noting that the compound
which it forms with oxygen by burning has a decided odor.

Other Elements.—Magnesium. Examine and burn a piece of magnesium ribbon, noting the white compound
of magnesium oxide which is formed. Iron. Examine pieces of the metal and also some of its
compounds, as ferrous sulphate, ferric chloride, and ferric oxide or iron rust. Sodium. Drop
a piece of the metal on water and observe results. Sodium decomposes water. It has to be kept
under some liquid, such as kerosene, which contains no oxygen. (It should not be touched except
with the fingers wet with kerosene.) Chlorine. Pour strong hydrochloric acid on a little manganese
dioxide in a test tube, and warm gently over a low flame. The escaping gas is chlorine. Avoid
breathing much of it.

*Composition of the Nutrients.*—The simplest way of determining what elements make up the different
nutrients is by heating them and studying the products of decomposition, as follows:

To show that Carbohydrates contain Carbon, Hydrogen, and Oxygen.—Place one half teaspoonful
of powdered starch in a test tube and heat strongly. Observe that water condenses on the sides
of the tube and that a black, charred mass remains behind. The black mass consists mainly of
carbon. The water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen. These three elements are thus shown to
be present in the starch. The experiment may be repeated, using sugar instead of starch.

To show that Proteids contain Carbon, Hydrogen, Oxygen, Nitrogen, and Sulphur.—Place in a test
tube some finely divided proteid which has been thoroughly dried (dried beef or the lean of
hard cured bacon). Heat strongly in the hood of a chemical laboratory or some other place where
the odors do not get into the room. First hold in the escaping gases a wet strip of red litmus
paper. This will be turned blue, showing ammonia (NH3) to be escaping. Next hold in the mouth
of the tube a strip of a paper wet with a solution of lead nitrate. This is turned black or
brown on account of hydrogen sulphide(H2S) which is being driven off. Observe also that water
condenses in the upper part of the tube and that a black, charred mass remains behind. Since
the products of decomposition (H2O, NH3, H2S, and the charred mass) contain hydrogen, oxygen,
nitrogen, sulphur, and carbon, these elements are of course present in the proteid tested.

To show the Presence of Mineral Matter.—Burn a piece of dry bread by holding it in a clear,
hot flame, and observe the ash that is left behind. This is the mineral matter present in the
bread.

*Tests for Nutrients.* Proteids.—Cover the substance to be tested with strong nitric acid and
heat gradually to boiling. If proteid is present it turns yellow and partly dissolves in the
acid, forming a yellow solution. Let cool and then add ammonia. The yellow solid and the solution
are turned a deep orange color. Apply this test to foods containing proteid such as white of
egg, cheese, lean meat, etc.

Starch.—(a) Place a small lump of starch in one fourth of a pint of water and heat gradually
to boiling, stirring well. Then add enough water to form a thin liquid and fill a test tube
half full. Add to this a few drops of a solution of iodine. (Prepare by dissolving a crystal
of iodine in 25 cubic centimeters (1/20 pint) of a solution of potassium iodide in water and
add water to this until it is a light amber color.) The starch solution is turned blue, (b)
Cut with a razor a thin slice from a potato. Place this in a weak solution of iodine for a
few minutes and then examine with the microscope, using first a low and then a high power.
Numerous starch grains inclosed in cellulose walls will be seen (Fig. 60).

Dextrose, or Grape Sugar.—Place a solution of the substance supposed to contain grape sugar
in a test tube and add a few drops of a dilute solution of copper sulphate. Then add sodium
hydroxide solution until the precipitate which first forms is redissolved and a clear blue
liquid obtained. Heat the upper portion of the liquid slowly to near the boiling point. A little
below the boiling point the blue color disappears and a yellow-red precipitate is formed. If
the upper layer of the liquid is now boiled, the color deepens and this may be contrasted with
the blue color below. Apply this test to the sugar in raisins and in honey.

Fat.—Fat is recognized by its effect on paper, making a greasy stain which does not disappear
on heating and which renders the paper translucent. Try butter, lard, or olive oil. Also show
the presence of fat in peanuts by crushing them in a mortar and rubbing the powder on thin
paper. If the substance to be tested contains but little fat, this may be dissolved out with
ether. If a drop of ether containing the fat is placed on paper, it evaporates, leaving the
fat, which then forms the stain.

*To show the Effect of Alcohol upon Proteid.*—Place some of the white of a raw egg in a glass
vessel and cover it with a small amount of alcohol. As the albumin (proteid) hardens, or coagulates,
observe that the quantity of clear liquid increases. This is due to the withdrawal of water
from the albumin by the alcohol. Since the tissues are made up chiefly of proteids, a piece
of muscle or of liver may be used in the experiment, instead of the egg, with similar results.

*To illustrate the Digestive Process.*—To a tumbler two thirds full of water add a little salt.
Stir and observe that the salt is dissolved. Taste the solution to see that the salt has not
been changed chemically. Now add a little powdered limestone to the water and stir as before.
Observe that the limestone does not dissolve. Then add some hydrochloric acid and observe the
result. State the part played by the acid and by the water in dissolving the limestone. Apply
to the digestion of the different classes of foods.

CHAPTER X - ORGANS AND PROCESSES OF DIGESTION

The organs of digestion are adapted to the work of dissolving the foods by both their structure
and arrangement. Most of them consist either of tubes or cavities and these are so connected,
one with the other, as to form a continuous passageway entirely through the body. This passageway
is known as

*The Alimentary Canal. *—The alimentary canal has a length of about thirty feet and, while
it begins at the mouth, all but about eighteen inches of it is found in the abdominal cavity.
On account of its length it lies for the most part in coils, the two largest ones being known
as the small intestine and the large intestine. Connected with the alimentary canal are the
glands that supply the liquids for acting on the food. The divisions of the canal and most
of the glands that empty liquids into it are shown in Fig. 63 and named in the table below:

                                 [Table]

*Coats of the Alimentary Canal.*—The walls of the alimentary canal, except at the mouth, are
distinct from the surrounding tissues and consist in most places of at least three layers,
or coats, as follows:

                                [Fig. 63]

 Fig. 63—*Diagram of the digestive system.* 1. Mouth. 2. Soft palate. 3.
Pharynx. 4. Parotid gland. 5. Sublingual gland. 6. Submaxillary gland. 7.
Esophagus. 8. Stomach. 9. Pancreas. 10. Vermiform appendix. 11. Cæcum. 12.
 Ascending colon. 13. Transverse colon. 14. Descending colon. 15. Sigmoid
    flexure. 16. Rectum. 17. Ileo-cæcal valve. 18. Duct from liver and
                          pancreas. 19. Liver.

     Diagram does not show comparative length of the small intestine.

1. An inner coat, or lining, known as the mucous membrane. This membrane is not confined to
the alimentary canal, but lines, as we have seen, the different air passages. It covers, in
fact, all those internal surfaces of the body that connect with the external surface. It derives
its name from the substance which it secretes, called mucus. In structure it resembles the
skin, being continuous with the skin where cavities open to the surface. It is made up of two
layers—a thick underlayer which contains blood vessels, nerves, and glands, and a thin surface
layer, called the epithelium. The epithelium, like the cuticle, is without blood vessels, nerves,
or glands.

2. A middle coat, which is muscular and which forms a continuous layer throughout the canal,
except at the mouth. (Here its place is taken by the strong muscles of mastication which are
separate and distinct from each other.) As a rule the muscles of this coat are involuntary.
They surround the canal as thin sheets and at most places form two distinct layers. In the
inner layer the fibers encircle the canal, but in the outer layer they run longitudinally,
or lengthwise, along the canal.(57)

3. An outer or serous coat, which is limited to those portions of the canal that occupy the
abdominal cavity. This coat is not found above the diaphragm. It is a part of the lining membrane
of the cavity of the abdomen, called

                                [Fig. 64]

Fig. 64—*Diagram of the peritoneum.* 1. Transverse colon. 2. Duodenum. 3.
                      Small intestine. 4. Pancreas.

*The Peritoneum.*—The peritoneum is to the abdominal cavity what the pleura is to the thoracic
cavity. It forms the outer covering for the alimentary canal and other abdominal organs and
supplies the inner lining of the cavity itself. It is also the means of holding these organs
in place, some of them being suspended by it from the abdominal walls (Fig. 64). By the secretion
of a small amount of liquid, it prevents friction of the parts upon one another.

*Digestive Glands.*—The glands which provide the different fluids for acting on the foods derive
their constituents from the blood. They are situated either in the mucous membrane or at convenient
places outside of the canal and pass their liquids into it by means of small tubes, called
ducts. In the canal the food and the digestive fluids come in direct contact—a condition which
the dissolving processes require. Each kind of fluid is secreted by a special kind of gland
and is emptied into the canal at the place where it is needed.

*The Digestive Processes.*—Digestion is accomplished by acting upon the food in different ways,
as it is passed along the canal, with the final result of reducing it to the form of a solution.
Several distinct processes are necessary and they occur in such an order that those preceding
are preparatory to those that follow. These processes are known as mastication, insalivation,
deglutition, stomach digestion, and intestinal digestion. As the different materials become
liquefied they are transferred to the blood, and substances not reduced to the liquid state
are passed on through the canal as waste. The first two of the digestive processes occur in

*The Mouth.*—This is an oval-shaped cavity situated at the very beginning of the canal. It
is surrounded by the lips in front, by the cheeks on the sides, by the hard palate above and
the soft palate behind, and by the tissues of the lower jaw below. The mucous membrane lining
the mouth is, soft and smooth, being covered with flat epithelial cells. The external opening
of the mouth is guarded by the lips, and the soft palate forms a movable partition between
the mouth and the pharynx. In a condition of repose the mouth space is practically filled by
the teeth and the tongue, but the cavity may be enlarged and room provided for food by depressing
the lower jaw.

The mouth by its construction is well adapted to carrying on the processes of mastication and
insalivation. By the first process the solid food is reduced, by the cutting and grinding action
of the teeth, to a finely divided condition. By the second, the saliva becomes mixed with the
food and is made to act upon it.

                                [Fig. 65]

Fig. 65—*The teeth.* A. Section of a single molar. 1. Pulp. 2. Dentine.
  3. Enamel. 4. Crown. 5. Neck. 6. Root. B. Teeth in position in lower
  jaw. 1. Incisors. 2. Canine. 3. Biscuspids. 4. Molars. C. Upper and
   lower teeth on one side. 1. Incisors. 2. Canines. 3. Biscuspids. 4.
Molars. 5. Wisdom. D. Upper and lower incisor, to show gliding contact.

*Accessory Organs of the Mouth.*—The work of mastication and insalivation is accomplished through
organs situated in and around the mouth cavity. These comprise:

1. The Teeth.—The teeth are set in the upper and lower jaws, one row directly over the other,
with their hardened surfaces facing. In reducing the food, the teeth of the lower jaw move
against those of the upper, while the food is held by the tongue and cheeks between the grinding
surfaces. The front teeth are thin and chisel-shaped. They do not meet so squarely as do the
back ones, but their edges glide over each other, like the blades of scissors—a condition that
adapts them to cutting off and separating the food (D, Fig. 65). The back teeth are broad and
irregular, having surfaces that are adapted to crushing and grinding.

Each tooth is composed mainly of a bone-like substance, called dentine, which surrounds a central
space, containing blood vessels and nerves, known as the pulp cavity. It is set in a depression
in the jaw where it is held firmly in place by a bony substance, known as cement. The part
of the tooth exposed above the gum is the crown, the part surrounded by the gum is the neck,
and the part which penetrates into the jaw is the root (A, Fig. 65). A hard, protective material,
called enamel, covers the exposed surface of the tooth.

The teeth which first appear are known as the temporary, or milk, teeth and are twenty in number,
ten in each jaw. They usually begin to appear about the sixth month, and they disappear from
the mouth at intervals from the sixth to the thirteenth year. As they leave, teeth of the second,
or permanent, set take their place. This set has thirty-two teeth of four different kinds arranged
in the two jaws as follows:

In front, above and below, are four chisel-shaped teeth, known as the incisors. Next to these
on either side is a tooth longer and thicker than the incisors, called the canine. Back of
these are two short, rounded and double pointed teeth, the bicuspids, and back of the bicuspids
are three heavy teeth with irregular grinding surfaces, called the molars (B and C, Fig. 65).
Since the molar farthest back in each jaw is usually not cut until maturity, it is called a
wisdom tooth. The molars are known as the superadded permanent teeth because they do not take
the place of milk teeth, but form farther back as the jaw grows in length.

                                [Fig. 66]

    Fig. 66—*Diagram* showing directions of muscular fibers in tongue.

2. The Tongue.—The tongue is a muscular organ whose fibers extend through it in several directions
(Fig. 66). Its structure adapts it to a variety of movements. During mastication the tongue
transfers the food from one part of the mouth to another, and, with the aid of the cheeks,
holds the food between the rows of teeth. (By an outward pressure from the tongue and an inward
pressure from the cheek the food is kept between the grinding surfaces.) The tongue has functions
in addition to these and is a most useful organ.

3. The Muscles of Mastication.—These are attached to the lower jaw and bring about its different
movements. The masseter muscles, which are the heavy muscles in the cheeks, and the temporal
muscles, located in the region of the temples, raise the lower jaw and supply the force for
grinding the food. Small muscles situated below the chin depress the jaw and open the mouth.

                                [Fig. 67]

 Fig. 67—*Salivary glands* and the ducts connecting them with the mouth.

4. The Salivary Glands.—These glands are situated in the tissues surrounding the mouth, and
communicate with it by means of ducts (Fig. 67). They secrete the saliva. The salivary glands
are six in number and are arranged in three pairs. The largest, called the parotid glands,
lie, one on either side, in front of and below the ears. A duct from each gland passes forward
along the cheek until it opens in the interior of the mouth, opposite the second molar tooth
in the upper jaw. Next in size to the parotids are the submaxillary glands. These are located,
one on either side, just below and in front of the triangular bend in the lower jaw. The smallest
of the salivary glands are the sublingual. They are situated in the floor of the mouth, on
either side, at the front and base of the tongue. Ducts from the submaxillary and sublingual
glands open into the mouth below the tip of the tongue.

*The Saliva and its Uses.*—The saliva is a transparent and somewhat slimy liquid which is slightly
alkaline. It consists chiefly of water (about 99 per cent), but in this are dissolved certain
salts and an active chemical agent, or enzyme, called ptyalin, which acts on the starch. The
ptyalin changes starch into a form of sugar (maltose), while the water in the saliva dissolves
the soluble portions of the food. In addition to this the saliva moistens and lubricates the
food which it does not dissolve, and prepares it in this way for its passage to the stomach.
The last is considered the most important use of the saliva, and dry substances, such as crackers,
which require a considerable amount of this liquid, cannot be eaten rapidly without choking.
Slow mastication favors the secretion and action of the saliva.

*Deglutition.*—Deglutition, or swallowing, is the process by which food is transferred from
the mouth to the stomach. Though this is not, strictly speaking, a digestive process, it is,
nevertheless, necessary for the further digestion of the food. Mastication and insalivation,
which are largely mechanical, prepare the food for certain chemical processes by which it is
dissolved. The first of these occurs in the stomach and to this organ the food is transferred
from the mouth. The chief organs concerned in deglutition are the tongue, the pharynx, and
the esophagus.

*The Pharynx* is a round and somewhat cone-shaped cavity, about four and one half inches in
length, which lies just back of the nostrils, mouth, and larynx. It is remarkable for its openings,
seven in number, by means of which it communicates with other cavities and tubes of the body.
One of these openings is into the mouth, one into the esophagus, one into the larynx, and one
into each of the nostrils, while two small tubes (the eustachian) pass from the upper part
of the pharynx to the middle ears.

The pharynx is the part of the food canal that is crossed by the passageway for the air. To
keep the food from passing out of its natural channel, the openings into the air passages have
to be carefully guarded. This is accomplished through the soft palate and epiglottis, which
are operated somewhat as valves. The muscular coat of the pharynx is made up of a series of
overlapping muscles which, by their contractions, draw the sides together and diminish the
cavity. The mucous membrane lining the pharynx is smooth, like that of the mouth, being covered
with a layer of flat epithelial cells.

*The Esophagus*, or gullet, is a tube eight or nine inches long, connecting the pharynx with
the stomach. It lies for the most part in the thoracic cavity and consists chiefly of a thick
mucous lining surrounded by a heavy coat of muscle. The muscular coat is composed of two layers—an
inner layer whose fibers encircle the tube and an outer layer whose fibers run lengthwise.

*Steps in Deglutition.*—The process of deglutition varies with the kind of food. With bulky
food it consists of three steps, or stages, as follows: 1. By the contraction of the muscles
of the cheeks, the food ball, or bolus, is pressed into the center of the mouth and upon the
upper surface of the tongue. Then the tongue, by an upward and backward movement, pushes the
food under the soft palate and into the pharynx.

2. As the food passes from the mouth, the pharynx is drawn up to receive it. At the same time
the soft palate is pushed upward and backward, closing the opening into the upper pharynx,
while the epiglottis is made to close the opening into the larynx. By this means all communication
between the food canal and the air passages is temporarily closed. The upper muscles of the
pharynx now contract upon the food, forcing it downward and into the esophagus.

3. In the esophagus the food is forced along by the successive contractions of muscles, starting
at the upper end of the tube, until the stomach is reached.

Swallowing is doubtless aided to some extent by the force of gravity. That it is independent
of this force, however, is shown by the fact that one may swallow with the esophagus in a horizontal
position, as in lying down.

                                [Fig. 68]

   Fig. 68—*Gastric Glands.* A. Single gland showing the two kinds of
secreting cells and the duct where the gland opens on to the surface. B.
 Inner surface of stomach magnified. The small pits are the openings from
                               the glands.

*The Stomach.*—The stomach is the largest dilatation of the alimentary canal. It is situated
in the abdominal cavity, immediately below the diaphragm, with the larger portion toward the
left side. Its connection with the esophagus is known as the cardiac orifice and its opening
into the small intestine is called the pyloric orifice. It varies greatly in size in different
individuals, being on the average from ten to twelve inches at its greatest length, from four
to five inches at its greatest width, and holding from three to five pints. It has the coats
common to the canal, but these are modified somewhat to adapt them to its work.

The mucous membrane of the stomach is thick and highly developed. It contains great numbers
of minute tube-shaped bodies, known as the gastric glands (Fig. 68). These are of two general
kinds and secrete large quantities of a liquid called the gastric juice. When the stomach is
empty, the mucous membrane is thrown into folds which run lengthwise over the inner surface.
These disappear, however, when the walls of the stomach are distended with food.

The muscular coat consists of three separate layers which are named, from the direction of
the fibers, the circular layer, the longitudinal layer, and the oblique layer (Fig. 69). The
circular layer becomes quite thick at the pyloric orifice, forming a distinct band which serves
as a valve.

                                [Fig. 69]

Fig. 69—*Muscles of the stomach* (from Morris’ Human Anatomy). The layer
                     of Longitudinal fibers removed.

The outer coat of the stomach, called the serous coat, is a continuation of the peritoneum,
the membrane lining the abdominal cavity.

*Stomach Digestion.*—In the stomach begins the definite work of dissolving those foods which
are insoluble in water. This, as already stated, is a double process. There is first a chemical
action in which the insoluble are changed into soluble substances, and this is followed immediately
by the dissolving action of water. The chief substances digested in the stomach are the proteids.
These, in dissolving, are changed into two soluble substances, known as peptones and proteoses.
The digestion of the proteids is, of course, due to the

*Gastric Juice.*—The gastric juice is a thin, colorless liquid composed of about 99 per cent
of water and about 1 per cent of other substances. The latter are dissolved in the water and
include, besides several salts, three active chemical agents—hydrochloric acid, pepsin, and
rennin. Pepsin is the enzyme which acts upon proteids, but it is able to act only in an acid
medium—a condition which is supplied by the hydrochloric acid. Mixed with the hydrochloric
acid it converts the proteids into peptones and proteoses.

*Other Effects of the Gastric Juice.*—In addition to digesting proteids, the gastric juice
brings about several minor effects, as follows:

1. It checks, after a time, the digestion of the starch which was begun in the mouth by the
saliva.(58) This is due to the presence of the hydrochloric acid, the ptyalin being unable
to act in an acid medium.

2. While there is no appreciable action on the fat itself, the proteid layers that inclose
the fat particles are dissolved away (Fig. 79), and the fat is set free. By this means the
fat is broken up and prepared for a special digestive action in the small intestine.

3. Dissolved albumin, like that in milk, is curded, or coagulated, in the stomach. This action
is due to the rennin. The curded mass is then acted upon by the pepsin and hydrochloric acid
in the same manner as the other proteids.

4. The hydrochloric acid acts on certain of the insoluble mineral salts found in the foods
and reduces them to a soluble condition.

5. It is also the opinion of certain physiologists that cane sugar and maltose (double sugars)
are converted by the hydrochloric acid into dextrose and levulose (single sugars).

After a variable length of time, the contents of the stomach is reduced to a rather uniform
and pulpy mass which is called chyme. Portions of this are now passed at intervals into the
small intestine.

*Muscular Action of the Stomach.*—The muscles in the walls of the stomach have for one of their
functions the mixing of the food with the gastric juice. By alternately contracting and relaxing,
the different layers of muscle keep the form of the stomach changing—a result which agitates
and mixes its contents. This action varies in different parts of the organ, being slight or
entirely absent at the cardiac end, but quite marked at the pyloric end.

Another purpose of the muscular coat is to empty the stomach into the small intestine. During
the greater part of the digestive period the muscular band at the pyloric orifice is contracted.
At intervals, however, this band relaxes, permitting a part of the contents of the stomach
to be forced into the small intestine. After the discharge the pyloric muscle again contracts,
and so remains until the time arrives for another discharge.

In addition to emptying the stomach into the small intestine, these muscles also aid in emptying
the organ upward and through the esophagus and mouth, should occasion require. Vomiting in
case of poisoning, or if the food for some reason fails to digest, is a necessary though unpleasant
operation. It is accomplished by the contraction of all the muscles of the stomach, together
with the contraction of the walls of the abdomen. During these contractions the pyloric valve
is closed, and the muscles of the esophagus and pharynx are in a relaxed condition.(59)

                                [Fig. 70]

  Fig. 70—*Passage from stomach* into small intestine. Illustration also
 shows arrangement of mucous membrane in the two organs. D. Bile duct.

*The Small Intestine.*—This division of the alimentary canal consists of a coiled tube, about
twenty-two feet in length, which occupies the central, lower portion of the abdominal cavity
(Fig. 71). At its upper extremity it connects with the pyloric end of the stomach (Fig. 70),
and at its lower end it joins the large intestine. It averages a little over an inch in diameter,
and gradually diminishes in size from the stomach to the large intestine. The first eight or
ten inches form a short curve, known as the duodenum. The upper two fifths of the remainder
is called the jejunum, and the lower three fifths is known as the ileum. The ileum joins that
part of the large intestine known as the cæcum, and at their place of union is a marked constriction
which prevents material from passing from the large into the small intestine (Fig. 73). This
is known as the ileo-cæcal valve.

The mucous membrane of the small intestine is richly supplied with blood vessels and contains
glands that secrete a digestive fluid known as the intestinal juice. The membrane is thrown
into many transverse, or circular, folds which increase its surface and also prevent materials
from passing too rapidly through the intestine. One important respect in which the small intestine
differs from all other portions of the food canal is that its surface is covered with great
numbers of minute elevations known as the villi. The purpose of these is to aid in the absorption
of the nutrients as they become dissolved (Chapter XI).

The muscular coat of the small intestine is made up of two distinct layers—the inner layer
consisting of circular fibers and the outer of longitudinal fibers. These muscles keep the
food materials mixed with the juices of the small intestine, but their main purpose is to force
the materials undergoing digestion through this long and much-coiled tube.

The outer, or serous, coat of the small intestine, like that of the stomach, is an extension
from the general lining of the abdominal cavity, or peritoneum. In fact, the intestine lies
in a fold of the peritoneum, somewhat as an arm in a sling, while the peritoneum, by connecting
with the back wall of the abdominal cavity, holds this great coil of digestive tubing in place
(Fig. 64). The portion of the peritoneum which attaches the intestine to the wall of the abdomen
is called the mesentery.

Most of the liquid acting on the food in the small intestine is supplied by two large glands,
the liver and the pancreas, that connect with it by ducts.

                                [Fig. 71]

     Fig. 71—*Abdominal cavity* with organs of digestion in position.

*The Liver* is situated immediately below the diaphragm, on the right side (Figs. 71 and 72),
and is the largest gland in the body. It weighs about four pounds and is separated into two
main divisions, or lobes. It is complex in structure and differs from the other glands in several
particulars. It receives blood from two distinct sources—the portal vein and the hepatic artery.
The portal vein collects the blood from the stomach, intestines, and spleen, and passes it
to the liver. This blood is loaded with food materials, but contains little or no oxygen. The
hepatic artery, which branches from the aorta, carries to the liver blood rich in oxygen. In
the liver the portal vein and the hepatic artery divide and subdivide, and finally empty their
blood into a single system of capillaries surrounding the liver cells. These capillaries in
turn empty into a single system of veins which, uniting to form the hepatic veins (two or three
in number), pass the blood into the inferior vena cava (Fig. 72).

                                [Fig. 72]

 Fig. 72—*Relations of the liver.* Diagram showing the connection of the
          liver with the large blood vessels and the food canal.

The liver secretes daily from one to two pounds of a liquid called bile. A reservoir for the
bile is provided by a small, membranous sack, called the gall bladder, located on the underside
of the liver. The bile passes from the gall bladder, and from the right and left lobes of the
liver, by three separate ducts. These unite to form a common tube which, uniting with the duct
from the pancreas, empties into the duodenum. Though usually described as a digestive gland,
the liver has other functions of equal or greater importance (Chapter XIII).

*The Bile* is a golden yellow liquid, having a slightly alkaline reaction and a very bitter
taste. It consists, on the average, of about 97 per cent of water and 3 per cent of solids.(60)
The solids include bile pigments, bile salts, a substance called cholesterine, and mineral
salts. The pigments (coloring matter) of the bile are derived from the hemoglobin of broken-down
red corpuscles (page 27).

Much about the composition of the bile is not understood. It is known, however, to be necessary
to digestion, its chief use being to aid in the digestion and absorption of fats. It is claimed
also that the bile aids the digestive processes in some general ways—counteracting the acid
of the gastric juice, preventing the decomposition of food in the intestines, and stimulating
muscular action in the intestinal walls. No enzymes have been discovered in the bile.

*The Pancreas* is a tapering and somewhat wedge-shaped gland, and is so situated that its larger
extremity, or head, is encircled by the duodenum. From here the more slender portion extends
across the abdominal cavity nearly parallel to and behind the lower part of the stomach. It
has a length of six or eight inches and weighs from two to three and one half ounces. Its secretion,
the pancreatic juice, is emptied into the duodenum by a duct which, as a rule, unites with
the duct from the liver.

*The Pancreatic Juice* is a colorless and rather viscid liquid, having an alkaline reaction.
It consists of about 97.6 per cent of water and 2.4 per cent of solids. The solids include
mineral salts (the chief of which is sodium carbonate) and four different chemical agents,
or enzymes,—trypsin, amylopsin, steapsin, and a milk-curding enzyme. These active constituents
make of the pancreatic juice the most important of the digestive fluids. It acts with vigor
on all of the nutrients insoluble in water, producing the following changes:

1. It converts the starch into maltose, completing the work begun by the saliva. This action
is due to the amylopsin,(61) which is similar to ptyalin but is more vigorous.

2. It changes proteids into peptones and proteoses, completing the work begun by the gastric
juice. This is accomplished by the trypsin, which is similar to, but more active than, the pepsin.

3. It digests fat. In this work the active agent is the steapsin.

The necessity of a milk-curding enzyme, somewhat similar to the rennin of the gastric juice,
is not understood.

*Digestion of Fat.*—Several theories have been proposed at different times regarding the digestion
and absorption of fat. Among these, what is known as the "solution theory" seems to have the
greatest amount of evidence in its favor. According to this theory, the fat, under the influence
of the steapsin, absorbs water and splits into two substances, recognized as glycerine and
fatty acid. This finishes the process so far as the glycerine is concerned, as this is soluble
in water; but the fatty acid, which (from certain fats) is insoluble in water,(62) requires
further treatment. The fatty acid is now supposed to be acted on in one, or both, of the following
ways: 1. To be dissolved as fatty acid by the action of the bile (since bile is capable of
dissolving it under certain conditions). 2. To be converted by the sodium carbonate into a
form of soap which is soluble in water.

The emulsification of fat is known to occur in the small intestine. By this process the fat
is separated into minute particles which are suspended in water, but not changed chemically,
the mixture being known as an emulsion. While this is believed by some to be an actual process
of digestion, the advocates of the solution theory claim that it is a process accompanying
and aiding the conversion of fat into fatty acid and glycerine.(63)

*The Intestinal Juice* is a clear liquid with an alkaline reaction, containing water, mineral
salts, and certain proteid substances that may act as enzymes. It assists in bringing about
an alkaline condition in the small intestine and aids in the reduction of cane sugar and maltose
to the simple sugars, dextrose and levulose. Since it is difficult to obtain this liquid in
sufficient quantities for experimenting, its uses have not been fully determined. Recent investigators,
however, assign to it an important place in the work of digestion.

*Work of the Small Intestine.*—The small intestine is the most important division of the alimentary
canal. It serves as a receptacle for holding the food while it is being acted upon; it secretes
the intestinal juice and mixes the food with the digestive fluids; it propels the food toward
the large intestine; and, in addition to all this, serves as an organ of absorption.

Digestion is practically finished in the small intestine, and a large portion of the reduced
food is here absorbed. There is always present, however, a variable amount of material that
is not digested. This, together with a considerable volume of liquid, is passed into

*The Large Intestine.*—The large intestine is a tube from five to six feet in length and averaging
about one and one half inches in diameter. It begins at the lower right side of the abdominal
cavity, forms a coil which almost completely surrounds the coil of small intestine, and finally
terminates at the surface of the body (Figs. 2, 71 and 73). It has three divisions, known as
the cæcum, the colon, and the rectum.

                                [Fig. 73]

Fig. 73—*Passage from small into large intestine.* At the ileo-cæcal valve
             is the narrowest constriction of the food canal.

The cæcum is the pouch-like dilatation of the large intestine which receives the lower end
of the small intestine. It measures about two and one half inches in diameter and has extending
from one side a short, slender, and blind tube, called the vermiform appendix. This structure
serves no purpose in digestion, but appears to be the rudiment of an organ which may have served
a purpose at some remote period in the history of the human race. The cæcum gradually blends
into the second division of the large intestine, called the colon.

The colon consists of four parts, described as the ascending colon, the transverse colon, the
descending colon, and the sigmoid flexure, or sigmoid colon. The first three divisions are
named from the direction of the movement of materials through them and the last from its shape,
which is similar to that of the Greek letter sigma (Σ).

The rectum is the last division of the large intestine It is a nearly straight tube, from six
to eight inches in length, and connects with the external surface of the body.

The general structure of the large intestine is similar to that of the small intestine, and,
like the small intestine, it is held in place by the peritoneum. It differs from the small
intestine, however, in its lining of mucous membrane and in the arrangement of the muscular
coat. The mucous membrane presents a smooth appearance and has no villi, while the longitudinal
layer of the muscular coat is limited to three narrow bands that extend along the greater length
of the tube (Fig. 74). These bands are shorter than the coats, and draw the large intestine
into a number of shallow pouches, by which it is readily distinguished from the small intestine
(Fig. 71).

                                [Fig. 74]

 Fig. 74—*Section of large intestine*, showing the coats. 1. Serous coat.
  2. Circular layer of muscle. 3. Submucous coat. 4. Mucous membrane. 5.
         Muscular bands extending lengthwise over the intestine.

*Work of the Large Intestine.*—The large intestine serves as a receptacle for the materials
from the small intestine. The digestive fluids from the small intestine continue their action
here, and the dissolved materials also continue to be absorbed. In these respects the work
of the large intestine is similar to that of the small intestine. It does, however, a work
peculiar to itself in that it collects and retains undigested food particles, together with
other wastes, and ejects them periodically from the canal.

*Work of the Alimentary Muscles.*—The mechanical part of digestion is performed by the muscles
that encircle the food canal. Their uses, which have already been mentioned in connection with
the different organs of digestion, may be here summarized: They supply the necessary force
for masticating the food. They propel the food through the canal. They mix the food with the
different juices. At certain places they partly or completely close the passage until a digestive
process is completed. They may even cause a reverse movement of the food, as in vomiting. All
of the alimentary muscles, except those around the mouth, are involuntary. Their work is of
the greatest importance.

*Other Purposes of the Digestive Organs.*—The digestive organs serve other important purposes
besides that of dissolving the foods. They provide favorable conditions for passing the dissolved
material into the blood. They dispose of such portions of the foods as fail, in the digestive
processes, to be reduced to a liquid state. A considerable amount of waste material is also
separated from the blood by the glands of digestion (especially the liver), and this is passed
from the body with the undigested portions of food. Then the food canal (stomach in particular)
is a means of holding, or storing, food which is awaiting the processes of digestion. Considering
the number of these purposes, the digestive organs are remarkably simple, both in structure
and in method of operation.

HYGIENE OF DIGESTION

Many of the ills to which flesh is heir are due to improper methods of taking food and are
cured by observing the simple rules of eating. Habit plays a large part in the process and
children should, for this reason, be taught early to eat properly. Since the majority of the
digestive processes are involuntary and the food, after being swallowed, is practically beyond
control, careful attention must be given to the proper mastication of the food and to such
other phases of digestion as are under control.

*Necessity for Thorough Mastication.*—Mastication prepares the food for the digestive processes
which follow. Unless the food has been properly masticated, the digestive fluids in the stomach
and intestines cannot act upon it to the best advantage. When the food is carefully chewed,
a larger per cent of it is actually digested—a point of importance where economy in the use
of food needs to be practiced.

A fact not to be overlooked is that one cannot eat hurriedly and practice thorough mastication.
The food must not be swallowed in lumps, but reduced to a finely divided and pulpy mass. This
requires time. The one who hurries through the meal is necessarily compelled to bolt his food.
Thirty minutes is not too long to give to a meal, and a longer period is even better.

Perhaps the most important result of giving plenty of time to the taking of food is that of
stimulating the digestive glands to a proper degree of activity. That both the salivary and
gastric glands are excited by the sight, smell, and thought of food and, through taste, by
the presence of food in the mouth, has been fully demonstrated. Food that is thoroughly masticated
and relished will receive more saliva and gastric juice, and probably more of other juices,
than if hastily chewed and swallowed. This has a most important bearing upon the efficiency
of the digestive processes.

*Order of Taking Food.*—There has been evolved through experience a rather definite order of
taking food, which our knowledge of the process of digestion seems to justify. The heavy foods
(proteids for the most part) are eaten first; after which are taken starchy foods and fats;
and the meal is finished off with sweetmeats and pastry.(64) The scientific arguments for this
order are the following:

1. By receiving the first of the gastric flow the proteids can begin digesting without delay.
Since these are the main substances acted on in the stomach, the time required for their digestion
is shortened by eating them first.

2. Sugar, being of the nature of predigested starch, quickly gets into the blood and satisfies
the relish for food. The result of taking sugar first may be to cause one to eat less than
he needs and to diminish the activity of the glands.

3. Fat or grease, if taken first, tends to form a coating over the walls of the stomach and
around the material to be digested. This prevents the juices from getting to and mixing with
the foods upon which they are to act.

4. Starch following the proteids, for the most part, does not so quickly come in contact with
the gastric juice. This enables the ptyalin of the saliva to continue its action for a longer
time than if the starch were eaten first.

*Liquids during the Meal.*—Liquids as ordinarily taken during the meal are objectionable. They
tend to diminish the secretion of the saliva and to cause rapid eating. Instead of eating slowly
and swallowing the food only so fast as the glands can supply the necessary saliva, the liquid
is used to wash the food down. Water or other drinks should be taken after the completion of
the meal or when the mouth is completely free from food. Even then it should be taken in small
sips. While the taking of a small amount of water in this way does no harm, a large volume
has the effect of weakening the gastric juice. Most of the water needed by the body should
be taken between meals.

*The State of Mind* has much to do with the proper digestion of the food. Worry, anger, fear,
and other disturbed mental states are known to check the secretion of fluids and to interfere
with the digestive processes. While the cultivation of cheerfulness is important for its general
hygienic effects, it is of especial value in relation to digestion. Intense emotions, either
during or following the meal, should if possible be avoided. The table is no place for settling
difficulties or administering rebuke. The conversation, on the other hand, should be elevating
and joy giving, thereby inducing a desirable reactionary influence upon the digestive processes.

*Care of the Teeth.*—The natural teeth are indispensable for the proper mastication of the
food. Of especial value are the molars—the teeth that grind the food. The development of the
profession of dentistry has made possible the preservation of the teeth, even when naturally
poor, as long as one has need of them. To preserve the teeth they must be kept clean. They
should be washed at least once a day with a soft-bristled brush, and small particles of food,
lodged between them, should be removed with a wooden pick. The biting of hard substances, such
as nuts, should be avoided, on account of the danger of breaking the enamel, although the chewing
of tough substances is considered beneficial.

Decayed places in the teeth should be promptly filled by the dentist. It is well, even when
decayed places are not known to exist, to have the teeth examined occasionally in order to
detect such places before they become large. On account of the expense, pain, and inconvenience
there is a tendency to put off dental work which one knows ought to be done. Perhaps in no
other instance is procrastination so surely punished. The decayed places become larger and
new points of decay are started; and the pain, inconvenience, and expense are increased proportionately.

*The Natural Appetite* should be followed with reference to both the kind and the amount of
food eaten. No system of knowledge will ever be devised which can replace the appetite as an
aid in the taking of food. It is nature’s means of indicating the needs of the body. The natural
appetite may be spoiled, however, by overeating and by the use of highly seasoned foods, or
by indulging in stimulants during the meal. It is spoiled in children by too free indulgence
in sweetmeats. By cultivating the natural appetite and heeding its suggestions, one has at
his command an almost infallible guide in the taking of food.

*Preparation of Meals.*—The cooking of food serves three important purposes. It renders the
food more digestible, relieving the organs of unnecessary work; it destroys bacteria that may
be present in the food, diminishing the likelihood of introducing disease germs into the body;
and it makes the food more palatable, thereby supplying a necessary stimulus to the digestive
glands. While the methods employed in the preparation of the different foods have much to do
with the ease with which they are digested and with their nourishing qualities, the scope of
our subject does not permit of a consideration of these methods.

*Quantity of Food.*—Overeating and undereating are both objectionable from a hygienic standpoint.
Overeating, by introducing an unnecessary amount of food into the body, overworks the organs
of digestion and also the organs of excretion. It may also lead to the accumulation of burdensome
fat and of harmful wastes. On the other hand, the taking of too little food impoverishes the
blood and weakens the entire body. As a rule, however, more people eat too much than too little,
and to quit eating before the appetite is fully satisfied is with many persons a necessary
precaution. The power of self-control, valuable in all phases of life, is indispensable in
the avoidance of overeating.

*Frequency of Taking Food.*—Eating between meals is manifestly an unhealthful practice. The
question has also been raised as to whether the common habit of eating three times a day is
best suited to all classes of people. Many people of weak digestive organs have been benefited
by the plan of two meals a day, while others adopt the plan of eating one heavy meal and two
light ones. Either plan gives the organs of digestion more time to rest and diminishes the
liability of overeating. On the other hand, those doing heavy muscular work can hardly derive
the energy which they need from less than three good meals a day. Though no definite rule can
be laid down, there is involved a hygienic principle which all should follow: Meals should
not overlap. The stomach should be free from food taken at a previous meal before more is introduced
into it. When this principle is not observed, material ferments in the stomach, causing indigestion
and other disorders. It should be noted, however, that the overlapping may be due to overeating
as well as to eating too frequently.

*Dangers from Impure Food.*—Food is frequently the carrier of disease germs and for this reason
requires close inspection (page 128). Typhoid fever, a most dangerous disease, is usually contracted
through either impure food or impure water (Chapter XXIII). One safeguard against disease germs,
as stated above, is thorough cooking. Too much care cannot be exercised with reference to the
water for drinking purposes. Water which is not perfectly clear, which smells of decaying material,
or which forms a sediment on standing is usually not fit to drink. It can, however, be rendered
comparatively harmless by boiling. The objections which many people have to drinking boiled
water are removed when it is boiled the day before it is used, so as to give it time to cool,
settle, and replace the air driven off by the boiling.

*Care of the Bowels.*—In considering the hygiene of the alimentary canal, the fact that it
is used as a means of separating the impurities from the body must not be overlooked. Frequently,
through lack of exercise, negligence in evacuating the bowels, or other causes, a weakened
condition of the canal is induced which results in the retention of impurities beyond the time
when they should be discharged. This is a great annoyance and at the same time a menace to
the health.

In most cases this condition can be relieved, and prevented from recurring, by observing the
following habits: 1. Have a regular time each day for evacuating the bowels. This is a most
important factor in securing the necessary movements. 2. Drink a cup of cold water on rising
in the morning and on retiring at night. 3. Eat generously of fruits and other coarse foods,
such as corn bread, oatmeal, hominy, cabbage, etc. 4. Practice persistently such exercises
as bring the abdominal muscles into play. These exercises strengthen indirectly the muscles
of the canal. 5. Avoid overwork, especially of the nervous system.

*Alcohol and Digestion.*—Though exciting temporarily a greater flow of the digestive fluids,
alcoholic drinks taken in any but very small quantities are considered detrimental to the work
of digestion. Large doses retard the action of enzymes, inflame the mucous lining of the stomach,(65)
and bring about a diseased condition of the liver. It may be noted, however, that the bad effects
of alcoholic beverages upon the stomach, the liver, and the body in general are less pronounced
when these are taken as a part of the regular meals.

*Effects of Tea and Coffee.*—In addition to the stimulating agent caffeine, tea and coffee
contain a bitter, astringent substance, known as tannin. On account of the tannin these beverages
tend to retard digestion and to irritate the lining of the stomach—effects that may be largely
obviated by methods of preparing tea and coffee which dissolve little of the tannin. (They
should be made without continued boiling or steeping.) The caffeine may do harm through its
stimulating effect upon the nervous system (page 56) and through the introduction of a special
waste into the body. In chemical composition caffeine closely resembles a waste, called uric
acid, and in the body is converted into this substance. If one is in a weakened condition,
the uric acid may fail to be oxidized to urea, as occurs normally, or to be thrown off as uric
acid. In this case it accumulates in the body, causing rheumatism and related diseases. It
thus happens that while some people may use tea and coffee without detriment, others are injured
by them.

*Summary.*—The main structure in the digestive system is the alimentary canal. This provides
cavities where important dissolving processes take place, and tubes for joining these cavities,
while glands connecting with the canal supply the necessary liquids for changing and dissolving
the foods. The general plan of digestion is that of passing the food through the canal, beginning
with the mouth, and of acting on it at various places, with the final result of reducing most
of it to the liquid state. The digestive fluids supply water which acts as a solvent and carries
the active chemical agents, or enzymes, that convert the insoluble foods into substances that
are soluble. The muscles in the walls of the canal perform the mechanical work of digestion,
while the nervous system controls and regulates the activity of the various organs concerned
in this work.

Exercises.—1. State the general purpose of digestion. How does digested food differ from that
not digested?

2. Name all the divisions of the alimentary canal in the order in which the food passes through
them.

3. What other work besides digestion is carried on by the alimentary canal?

4. What is gained by the mastication of the food? Why should mastication precede the other
processes of digestion?

5. What is the work of the tongue in digestion?

6. State the purposes served by the gastric juice.

7. Give reasons for regarding the small intestine as the most important division of the food canal.

8. At what places, and by the action of what liquids, are fats, proteids, and starch digested?

9. What enzymes are found in the pancreatic juice? What is the digestive action of each?

10. Describe the work performed by the muscles of the stomach, the mouth, the esophagus, and
the small intestine.

11. What advantages are derived from the use of cooked food?

12. State the advantages of drinking pure water.

13. If all the food that one needs to take at a single meal can be thoroughly masticated in
fifteen minutes, why is it better to spend a longer time at the table?

14. What is meant by the overlapping of meals? What bad results follow? How avoided?

PRACTICAL WORK

Examine a dissectible model of the human abdomen (Fig. 75), noting the form, location, and
connection of the different organs. Find the connection of the esophagus with the stomach,
of the stomach with the small intestine, and of the small intestine with the large intestine.
Sketch a general outline of the cavity, and locate in this outline its chief organs.

Where it is desirable to learn something of the actual structure of the digestive organs, the
dissection of the abdomen of some small animal is necessary. On account of unpleasant features
likely to be associated with such a dissection, however, this work is not recommended for immature
pupils.

                                [Fig. 75]

      Fig. 75—Model for demonstrating the abdomen and its contents.

*Dissection of the Abdomen.* (Optional)—For individual study, or for a small class, a half-grown
cat is perhaps the best available material. It should be killed with chloroform, and then stretched,
back downward, on a board, the feet being secured to hold it in place.

The teacher should make a preliminary examination of the abdomen to see that it is in a fit
condition for class study. If the bladder is unnaturally distended, its contents may be forced
out by slight pressure. The following materials will be needed during the dissection, and should
be kept near at hand: a sharp knife with a good point, a pair of heavy scissors, a vessel of
water, some cotton or a damp sponge, and some fine cord. During the dissection the specimen
should be kept as clean as possible, and any escaping blood should be mopped up with the cotton
or the sponge. The dissection is best carried out by observing the following order:

1. Cut through the abdominal wall in the center of the triangular space where the ribs converge.
From here cut a slit downward to the lower portion of the abdomen, and sideward as far as convenient.
Tack the loosened abdominal walls to the board, and proceed to study the exposed parts. Observe
the muscles in the abdominal walls, and the fold of the peritoneum which forms an apron-like
covering over the intestines.

2. Observe the position of the stomach, liver, spleen, and intestines, and then, by pushing
the intestines to one side, find the kidneys and the bladder.

3. Study the liver with reference to its location, size, shape, and color. On the under side,
find the gall bladder, from which a small tube leads to the small intestine. Observe the portal
vein as it passes into the liver. As the liver is filled with blood, neither it nor its connecting
blood vessels should be cut at this time.

4. Trace out the continuity of the canal. Find the esophagus where it penetrates the diaphragm
and joins the stomach. Find next the union of the stomach with the small intestine. Then, by
carefully following the coils of the small intestine, discover its union with the large intestine.

5. Within the first coil of the small intestine, as it leaves the stomach, find the pancreas.
Note its color, size, and branches. Find its connection with the small intestine.

6. Beginning at the cut portion of the abdominal wall, lift the thin lining of the peritoneum
and carefully follow it toward the back and central portion of the abdomen. Observe whether
it extends back of or in front of the kidneys, the aorta, and the inferior vena cava. Find
where it leaves the wall as a double membrane, the mesentery, which surrounds and holds in
place the large and small intestines. Sketch a coil of the intestine, showing the mesentery.

7. Find in the center of the coils of small intestine a long, slender body having the appearance
of a gland. This is the beginning of the thoracic duct and is called the receptacle of the
chyle. From this the thoracic duct rapidly narrows until it forms a tiny tube difficult to
trace in a small animal.

8. Cut away about two inches of the small intestine from the remainder, having first tied the
tube on the two sides of the section removed. Split it open for a part of its length, and wash
out its contents. Observe its coats. Place it in a shallow vessel containing water, and examine
the mucous membrane with a lens to find the villi. Make a drawing of this section, showing
the coats.

9. Study the connection of the small intestine with the large. Split them open at the place
of union, wash out the contents, and examine the ileo-cæcal valve.

10. Observe the size, shape, and position of the kidneys. Do they lie in front of or back of
the peritoneum? Do they lie exactly opposite each other? Note the connection of each kidney
with the aorta and the inferior vena cava by the renal artery and the renal vein. Find a slender
tube, the ureter, running from each kidney to the bladder. Do the ureters connect with the
top or with the base of the bladder? Show by a sketch the connection of the kidneys with the
large blood vessels and the bladder.

*To demonstrate the Teeth.*—Procure from the dentist a collection of different kinds of teeth,
both sound and decayed.

(a) Examine external surfaces of different kinds of teeth, noting general shape, cutting or
grinding surfaces, etc. Make a drawing of an incisor and also of a molar.

(b) After soaking some of the teeth for a couple of days in warm water saw one of them in two
lengthwise, and another in two crosswise, and smooth the cut surfaces with fine emery or sand
paper. Examine both kinds of sections, noting arrangement and extent of dentine, enamel, and
pulp. Make drawings.

(c) Examine a decayed tooth. Which substance of the tooth appears to decay most readily? Why
is it necessary to cut away a part of the tooth before filling?

(d) Test the effect of acids upon the teeth by leaving a tooth over night in a mixture of one
part hydrochloric acid to four parts water, and by leaving a second tooth for a couple of days
in strong vinegar. Examine the teeth exposed to the action of acids, noting results.

*To show the Importance of Mastication.*—Fill two tumblers each half full of water. Into one
put a lump of rock salt. Into the other place an equal amount of salt that has been finely
pulverized. Which dissolves first and why?

*To illustrate Acid and Alkaline Reactions.*—To a tumbler half full of water add a teaspoonful
of hydrochloric or other acid, as vinegar. To a second tumbler half full of water add an equal
amount of cooking soda. Taste each liquid, noting the sour taste of the acid, and the alkaline
taste of the soda. Hold a piece of red litmus paper in the soda solution, noting that it is
turned blue. Then hold a piece of blue litmus paper in the acid solution, noting that it is
turned red. Add acid to the soda solution, and soda to the acid solution, until the conditions
are reversed, testing with the red and blue litmus papers.

Hold, for a minute or longer, a narrow strip of red litmus paper in the mouth, noting any change
in the color of the paper. Repeat, using blue litmus paper. What effect, if any, has the saliva
upon the color of the papers? Has the mouth an acid or an alkaline reaction?

*To show the Action of Saliva on Starch.*—1 (Optional). Prepare starch paste by mixing half
a teaspoonful of starch in half a pint of water and heating the mixture to boiling. Place some
of this in a test tube and thin it by adding more water. Then add a small drop of iodine solution
(page 136) to the solution of starch. It should turn a deep blue color. This is the test for
starch.

Now collect from the mouth, in a clean test tube, two or three teaspoonfuls of saliva. Add
portions of this to small amounts of fresh starch solution in two test tubes. Let the tubes
stand for five or ten minutes surrounded by water having about the temperature of the body.
Test for changes that have occurred as follows:

(a) To one tube add a little of the iodine solution. Then gradually heat the upper portion
of the liquid to boiling. If it turns an orange or yellowish red color, the presence of a form
of sugar (maltose or dextrose) is proved. See page 136.

2. Hold some powdered starch in the mouth until it completely dissolves and observe that it
gradually acquires a sweetish taste. This shows the change of starch into sugar.

*To illustrate the Action of the Gastric Juice.*—Add to a tumbler two thirds full of water
as much scale pepsin (obtained from a drug store) as will stay on the end of the large blade
of a penknife. Then add enough hydrochloric acid to give a slightly sour taste. Place in the
artificial gastric juice thus prepared some boiled white of egg which has been finely divided
by pressing it through a piece of wire gauze. Also drop in a single large lump. Keep in a warm
place (about the temperature of the body) for several hours or a day, examining from time to
time. What is the general effect of the artificial gastric juice upon the egg?

*To illustrate Effect of Alcohol upon Gastric Digestion.*—Prepare a tumbler half full of artificial
gastric juice as in the above experiment, and add 10 cubic centimeters of this to each of six
clean test tubes bearing labels. To five of the tubes add alcohol from a burette as follows:
(1) .5 c.c., (2) 1 c.c., (3) 1.5 c.c., (4) 2 c.c., and (5) 3 c.c., leaving one tube without
alcohol. Now add to each tube about 1/4 gram of finely divided white of egg from the experiment
above, and place all of the tubes in a beaker half full of water. Keep the water a little above
the temperature of the body for several hours, examining the tubes at intervals to note the
progress of digestion. Inferences.

CHAPTER XI - ABSORPTION, STORAGE, AND ASSIMILATION

The dissolved nutrients, to reach the cells, must be transferred from the alimentary canal
to the blood stream. This process is known as absorption. In general, absorption means the
penetration of a liquid into the pores of a solid, and takes place according to the simple
laws of molecular movements. The absorption of food is, however, not a simple process, and
the passage takes place through an active (living) membrane. Another difference is that certain
foods undergo chemical change while being absorbed.

*Small Intestine as an Organ of Absorption.*—While absorption may occur to a greater or less
extent along the entire length of the alimentary canal, most of it takes place at the small
intestine. Its great length, its small diameter, and its numerous blood vessels all adapt the
small intestine to the work of absorption. The transverse folds in the mucous membrane, by
retarding the food in its passage and by increasing the absorbing surface, also aid in the
process. But of greatest importance are the minute elevations that cover the surface of the
mucous membrane, known as

*The Villi.*—Each single elevation, or villus, has a length of about one fiftieth of an inch
and a diameter about half as great (A, Fig. 76), and contains the following essential parts:

1. An outer layer of epithelial cells, resting upon a connective tissue support.

2. A small lymph tube, called a lacteal, which occupies the center of the villus and connects
at the base with other lymph tubes, also called lacteals (B, Fig. 76).

3. A network of capillaries.

The villi are structures especially adapted to the work of absorption, and they are found only
in the small intestine. The mucous membrane in all parts of the canal, however, is capable
of taking up some of the digested materials.

                                [Fig. 76]

Fig. 76—*The villi.* A. Diagram of a small section of mucous membrane of
      small intestine. 1. Villi. 2. Small glands, called crypts.

 B. Diagram showing structure of villi. 1. Small artery. 2. Lacteal. 3.
Villus showing termination of the lacteal. 4. Villus showing capillaries.
5. Villus showing both the lacteal and the capillaries. 6. Small vein. 7.
                        Layer of epithelial cells.

*Work of Capillaries and Lacteals.*—The capillaries and lacteals act as receivers of material
as it passes through the layer of epithelial cells covering the mucous membrane. The lacteals
take up the digested fats,(66) and the capillaries receive all the other kinds of nutrients.
These vessels do not, of course, retain the absorbed materials, but pass them on. Their final
destination is the general circulation, which they reach by two well-defined channels, or routes.

*Routes to the Circulation.*—The two routes from the place of absorption to the general circulation
are as follows:

1. Route taken by the Fat.—The fat is conveyed by the lacteals from the villi to the receptacle
of the chyle. At this place it mingles with the lymph from the lower parts of the body, and
with it passes through the thoracic duct to the left subclavian vein. Here it enters the general
circulation. Thus, to reach the general circulation, the fat has to pass through the villi,
the lacteals, the receptacle of the chyle, and the thoracic duct (Fig. 77). Its passage through
these places, like the movements in all lymph vessels, is slow, and it is only gradually admitted
to the blood stream.

                                [Fig. 77]

 Fig. 77—*Diagram of routes* from food canal to general circulation. See
                                  text.

2. Route of All the Nutrients except Fat.—Water and salts and the digested proteids and carbohydrates,
in passing into the capillaries, mix there with the blood. But this blood, instead of flowing
directly to the heart, is passed through the portal vein to the liver, where it enters a second
set of capillaries and is brought very near the liver cells. From the liver it is passed through
the hepatic veins into the inferior vena cava, and by these it is emptied into the right auricle.
This route then includes the capillaries in the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines,
the branches of the portal vein, the portal vein proper, the liver, and the hepatic veins (Fig.
77). In passing through the liver, a large portion of the food material is temporarily retained
for a purpose and in a manner to be described later (page 177).

*Absorption Changes.*—During digestion the insoluble foods are converted into certain soluble
materials, such as peptones, maltose, and glycerine,—the conversion being necessary to their
solution. A natural supposition is that these materials enter and become a part of the blood,
but examination shows them to be absent from this liquid. (See Composition of the Blood, page
30.) There are present in the blood, however, substances closely related to the peptones, maltose,
glycerine, etc.; substances which have in fact been formed from them. During their transfer
from the food canal, the dissolved nutrients undergo changes, giving rise to the materials
in the blood. Thus are the serum albumin and serum globulin of the blood derived from the peptones
and proteoses; the dextrose, from the maltose and other forms of sugar; and the fat droplets,
from the glycerine, fatty acid, and soluble soap.

While considerable doubt exists as to the cause of these changes and as to the places also
where some of them occur, their purpose is quite apparent. The materials forming the dissolved
foods, although adapted to absorption, are not suited to the needs of the body, and if introduced
in this form are likely to interfere with its work.(67) They are changed, therefore, into the
forms which the body can use.

*A Second Purpose of Digestion.*—Comparing the digestive changes with those of absorption,
it is found that they are of a directly opposite nature; that while digestion is a process
of tearing down, or separating,—one which reduces the food to a more finely divided condition—there
is in absorption a process of building up. From the comparatively simple compounds formed by
digestion, there are formed during absorption the more complex compounds of the blood. The
one exception is dextrose, which is a simple sugar; but even this is combined in the liver
and the muscles to form the more complex compound known as glycogen. (See Methods of Storage,
below.) These facts have suggested a second purpose of digestion—that of reducing foods to
forms sufficiently simple to enable the body to construct out of them the more complex materials
that it needs. Evidence that digestion serves such a purpose is found in the fact that both
proteids and carbohydrates are reduced to a simpler form than is necessary for dissolving them.(68)

*The Storage of Nutriment.*—For some time after the taking of a meal, food materials are being
absorbed more rapidly than they can be used by the cells. Following this is an interval when
the body is taking no food, but during which the cells must be supplied with nourishment. It
also happens that the total amount of food absorbed during a long interval may be in excess
of the needs of the cells during that time; and it is always possible, as in disease, that
the quantity absorbed is not equal to that consumed. To provide against emergencies, and to
keep up a uniform supply of food to the cells, it is necessary that the body store up nutrients
in excess of its needs.

*Methods of Storage.*—The general plan of storage varies with the different nutrients as follows:

1. The carbohydrates are stored in the form of glycogen. This, as already stated (page 120),
is a substance closely resembling starch. It is stored in the cells of both the liver and the
muscles, but mainly in the liver (Fig. 78). It is a chief function of the liver to collect
the excess of dextrose from the blood passing through it, and to convert it into glycogen,
which it then stores within its cells. It does not, however, separate all of the dextrose from
the blood, a small amount being left for supplying the immediate needs of the tissues. As this
is used, the glycogen in the liver is changed back to dextrose and, dissolving, again finds
its way into the blood. In this way, the amount of dextrose in the blood is kept practically
constant. The carbohydrates are stored also by converting them into fat.

                                [Fig. 78]

  Fig. 78—*Liver cells* where is stored the glycogen. C. Capillaries.

                                [Fig. 79]

  Fig. 79—*Stored-up fat.* The figure shows four connective tissue cells
 containing small particles of fat. 1. Nucleus. 2. Protoplasm. 3. Fat. 4.
                        Connective tissue fibers.

2. The fat is stored for the most part in the connective tissue. Certain of the connective
tissue cells have the property of taking fat from the blood and of depositing it within their
inclosing membranes (Fig. 79). When this is done to excess, and the cells become filled with
fat, they form the so-called adipose tissue. Most of this tissue is found under the skin, between
the muscles, and among the organs occupying the abdominal cavity. If one readily takes on fat,
it may also collect in the connective tissue around the heart. The stored-up fat is redissolved
as needed, and enters the blood, where it again becomes available to the active cells.

3. The proteids form a part of all the tissues, and for this reason are stored in larger quantities
than any of the other food substances. The large amount of proteid found in the blood may also
be looked upon as storage material. The proteids in the various tissues are spoken of as tissue
proteids, and those in the blood as circulating proteids. The proteids of the tissues serve
the double purpose of forming a working part of the cell protoplasm, and of supplying reserve
food material. That they are available for supplying energy, and are properly regarded as storage
material, is shown by the rapid loss of proteid in starving animals. When the proteids are
eaten in excess of the body’s need for rebuilding the tissues, they are supposed to be broken
up in such a manner as to form glycogen and fat, which may then be stored in ways already described.

*General Facts Relating to Storage.*—The form into which the food is converted for storage
in the body is that of solids—the form that takes up the least amount of space. These solids
are of such a nature that they can be changed back into their former condition and, by dissolving,
reënter the blood.

Only energy-yielding foods are stored. Water and salts, though they may be absorbed in excess
of the needs of the body, are not converted into other substances and stored away. Oxygen,
as already stated (page 108), is not stored. The interval of storage may be long or short,
depending upon the needs of the body. In the consumption of stored material the glycogen is
used first, then as a rule the fat, and last of all the proteids.

*Storage in the Food Canal.*—Not until three or four hours have elapsed are all the nutrients,
eaten at a single meal, digested and passed into the body proper. The undigested food is held
in reserve, awaiting digestion, and is only gradually absorbed as this process takes place.
It may properly, on this account, be regarded as stored material. That such storage is of advantage
is shown by the observed fact that substances which digest quickly (sugar, dextrin, "predigested
foods," etc.) do not supply the needs of the body so well as do substances which, like starch
and proteids, digest slowly. Even substances digesting quite slowly (greasy foods and pastry),
since they can be stored longer in the food canal, may be of real advantage where, from hard
work or exposure, the body requires a large supply of energy for some time. These "stay by"
the laborer, giving him strength after the more easily digested foods have been used up. Storage
by the food canal is limited chiefly to the stomach.

*Regulation of the Food Supply to the Cells.*—The storage of food materials is made to serve
a second purpose in the plan of the body which is even more important than that of supplying
nourishment to the cells during the intervals when no food is being taken. It is largely the
means whereby the rate of supply of materials to the cells is regulated. The cells obtain their
materials from the lymph, and the lymph is supplied from the blood. Should food substances,
such as sugar, increase in the blood beyond a low per cent, they are converted into a form,
like glycogen, in which they are held in reserve, or, for the time being, placed beyond the
reach of the cells. When, however, the supply is reduced, the stored-up materials reënter the
blood and again become available to the cells. By this means their rate of supply to the cells
is practically constant.

We are now in a position to understand why carbohydrates, fats, and proteids are so well adapted
to the needs of the body, while other substances, like alcohol, which may also liberate energy,
prove injurious. It is because foods are of such a chemical nature that they are adapted in
all respects to the body plan of taking up and using materials, while the other substances
are lacking in some particular.

                                [Fig. 80]

    Fig. 80—*Diagrams illustrating the relation of nutrients* and the
 non-relation of these to alcohol. A. Inter-relation and convertibility
           of proteids, fats, and carbohydrates (after Hall).

B. Diagram showing disposition of alcohol if this substance is taken in
  quantity corresponding to that of the nutrients (F.M.W.). The alcohol
         thrown off as waste is unoxidized and yields no energy.

*Why Alcohol is not a Food.*—If the passage of alcohol through the body is followed, it is
seen, in the first place, that it is a simple liquid and undergoes no digestive change; and
in the second place, that it is rapidly absorbed from the stomach in both weak and concentrated
solutions. This introduces it quickly into the blood, and once there, it diffuses rapidly into
the lymph and then into the cells. Since the body cannot store alcohol or convert it into some
nutrient that can be stored (Fig. 80), there is no way of regulating the amount that shall
be present in the blood, or of supplying it to the cells as their needs require. They must
take it in excess of their needs, regardless of the effect, at least until the organs of excretion
can throw off the surplus as waste. Compared with proteid, carbohydrates, or fats, alcohol
is an unmanageable substance in the body. Attempting to use it as a food is as foolish as trying
to burn gasolene or kerosene in an ordinary wood stove. It may be done to a limited extent,
but is an exceedingly hazardous experiment. Not being adapted to the body method of using materials,
alcohol cannot be classed as a food.

*Assimilation.*—Digestion, absorption, circulation, and storage of foods are the processes
that finally make them available to the cells in the different parts of the body. There still
remains another process for these materials to undergo before they serve their final purposes.
This last process, known as assimilation, is the appropriation of the food material by the
cell protoplasm. In a sense the storage of fat by connective tissue cells and of glycogen by
the liver cells is assimilation. The term is limited, however, to the disposition of material
with reference to its final use. Whether all the materials used by the cells actually become
a part of the protoplasm is not known. It is known, however, that the cells are the places
where most of the oxidations of the body occur and that materials taking part in these oxidations
must, at least, come in close contact with the protoplasm. Assimilation, then, is the last
event in a series of processes by which oxygen, food materials, and cell protoplasm are brought
into close and active relations. The steps leading up to assimilation are shown in Table II.

                  TABLE II. THE PASSAGE OF MATERIALS TO THE CELLS
MATERIALS     DIGESTION     ABSORPTION     ROUTE TO       STORAGE       CONDITION
                                           THE GENERAL                  IN THE
                                           CIRCULATION                  BLOOD
Proteids      Changed       In passing     Through the    Become a      As proteids
              into          into the       portal vein    part of the   in
              proteoses     capillaries,   to the         protoplasm    colloidal
              and           the            liver and      of all the    solution.
              peptones by   proteoses      from there     cells.
              the action    and            through the
              of the        peptones       hepatic
              gastric and   change into    veins into
              pancreatic    the            the
              juices.       proteids of    inferior
                            the blood.     vena cava.
Fat           Changed       In passing     Through the    As fat in     Chiefly as
              into fatty    into the       lacteals to    the cells     minute oil
              acid,         lacteals,      the            of            droplets.
              glycerine,    the            thoracic       collective
              and           glycerine      duct, by       tissue.
              soluable      unites with    which it is
              soap by the   the soluable   emptied
              bile and      soap and       into the
              pancreatic    fatty acid     left
              juice.        to form the    subclavian
                            oil droplets   vein.
                            of the
                            blood.
Starch        Reduced to    Enters the     Through the    As glycogen   As dextrose
              some of the   capillaries    portal         chiefly by    in
              different     as dextrose.   vein,          the liver,    solution.
              forms of                     liver,         but to some
              sugar, as                    hepatic        extent by
              maltose,                     veins, into    muscle
              dextrose,                    inferior       cells.
              etc.                         vena cava.
Water         Undergoes     Taken up by    Both           Is not        As the
              no change.    both the       routes, but    stored in     water which
                            lacteals and   mostly by      the sense     serves as a
                            capillaries,   way of the     that energy   carrier of
                            but to the     liver.         foods are.    all the
                            greater                                     other
                            extent by                                   constituents
                            the                                         of the
                            capilaries.                                 blood.
Common salt   Undergoes     Taken up by    By way of      Not stored.   In solution.
              no change.    the            portal
                            capillaries    vein,
                            without        liver, and
                            undergoing     hepatic
                            apparent       veins into
                            change.        inferior
                                           vena cava.
Oxygen                      Taken up by    Already in     Is not        United with
                            the            the general    stored.       the
                            capillaries    circulation.                 hemoglobin
                            at the                                      and to a
                            lungs.                                      small extent
                                                                        in solution
                                                                        in the
                                                                        plasma.

*Tissue Enzymes.*—The important part played by enzymes in the digestion of the food has suggested
other uses for them in the body. It has been recently shown that many of the chemical changes
in the tissues are in all probability due to the presence of enzymes. An illustration of what
a tissue enzyme may do is seen in the changes which fat undergoes. In order for the body to
use up its reserve fat, it must be transferred from the connective tissue cells, where it is
stored, to the cells of the active tissues where it is to be used. This requires that it be
reduced to the form of a solution and that it reënter the blood. In other words, it must be
redigested. For bringing about these changes a substance identical in function with the steapsin
of the pancreatic juice has been shown to exist in several of the tissues.

Although this subject is still under investigation, it may be stated with certainty that there
are present in the tissues, enzymes that change dextrose to glycogen and vice versa, that break
down and build up the proteids, and that aid in the oxidations at the cells. The necessity
for such enzymes is quite apparent.

*Summary.*—The digested nutrients are taken up by the capillaries and the lymph vessels and
transferred by two routes to the circulation. In passing from the alimentary canal into the
circulation the more important of the foods undergo changes which adapt them to the needs of
the body. Since materials are absorbed more rapidly than they are used, means are provided
for storing them and for supplying them to the cells as their needs require. Capability of
storage is an essential quality of energy-yielding foods; and substances, such as alcohol,
which lack this quality are not adapted to the needs of the body. For causing the chemical
changes that occur in the storage of foods, as well as the oxidations at the cells, the presence
of active agents, or enzymes, is necessary.

*Exercises.*—1. In what respects does the absorption of food materials from the alimentary
canal differ from the absorption of a simple liquid by a solid?

2. In what different ways is the small intestine especially adapted to the work of absorption?

3. What are the parts of a villus? What are the lacteals? Account for the name.

4. What part is played by the capillaries and the lacteals in the work of absorption? How does
their work differ?

5. What changes, if any, take place in water, common salt, fat, proteids, and carbohydrates
during absorption?

6. What double purpose is served by the processes of digestion?

7. Trace the passage of proteids, fats, and carbohydrates from the small intestine into the
general circulation.

8. What is the necessity for storing nutrients in the body? Why is it not also necessary to
store up oxygen?

9. In what form and at what places is each of the principal nutrients stored?

10. How is the rate of supply of food to the cells regulated? Why is the body unable to regulate
the supply of alcohol to the cells when this substance is taken?

11. Explain Fig. 80, page 181. What becomes of the alcohol if this is taken in any but very
small quantities?

12. State the general purpose of enzymes in the body. Name the enzymes found in each of the
digestive fluids. What ones are found in the tissues?

PRACTICAL WORK

Illustrate the ordinary meaning of the term "absorption" by bringing the end of a piece of
crayon in contact with water, or a piece of blotting paper in contact with ink, noting the
passage of the liquid into the crayon or the paper. Show how absorption from the food canal
differs from this kind of absorption.

Show by a diagram similar to Fig. 77 the two routes by which the foods pass from the alimentary
canal into the blood stream.

CHAPTER XII - ENERGY SUPPLY OF THE BODY

If one stops taking food, it becomes difficult after a time for him to move about and to keep
warm. These results show that food has some relation to the energy of the body, for motion
and heat are forms of energy. The relation of oxygen to the supply of energy has already been
discussed (Chapter VIII). We are now to inquire more fully into the energy supply of the body,
and to consider those conditions which make necessary the introduction of both food and oxygen
for this purpose.

*Kinds of Bodily Energy.*—The healthy body has at any time a considerable amount of potential,
or reserve, energy,—energy which it is not using at the time, but which it is able to use as
its needs require. When put to use, this energy is converted into such forms of kinetic energy(69)
as are indicated by the different kinds of bodily power. These are as follows:

1. Power of Motion.—The body can move itself from place to place and it can give motion to
things about it.

2. Heat Power.—The body keeps itself warm and is able to communicate warmth to its surroundings.

3. Nervous Power.—Through the nervous system the body exercises the power of control over its
different parts.

As motion, heat, and nervous power the body uses most of its energy.

*The Source of Bodily Energy.*—As already indicated, the energy of the body is supplied through
the food and the oxygen. These contain energy in the potential form, which becomes kinetic
(active) through their uniting with each other in the body. Somewhat as the power of the steam
engine is derived from the combustion of fuel in the furnaces, the energy of the body is supplied
through the oxidations at the cells. How the food and oxygen come to possess energy is seen
by a study of the general methods by which energy is stored up and used.

                                [Fig. 81]

       Fig. 81—*Simple device* for storing energy through gravity.

*Simple Methods of Storing Energy.*—Energy is stored by converting the kinetic into the potential
form. Two of the simplest ways of doing this are the following:

1. Storing of Energy through Gravity.—On account of the attraction between the earth and all
bodies upon the earth, the mere lifting of a weight puts it in a position where gravity can
cause it to move (Fig. 81). As a consequence the raising of bodies above the earth’s surface
is a means of storing energy—the energy remaining stored until the bodies fall. As they fall,
the stored-up (potential) energy becomes kinetic and can be made to do work.

2. Storing of Energy through Elasticity.—Energy is stored also by doing work in opposition
to elasticity, as in bending a bow or in winding a clock spring. The bending, twisting, stretching,
or compressing of elastic substances puts them in a condition of strain which causes them to
exert a pressure (called elastic force) that tends to restore them to their former condition.
Energy stored by this means becomes active as the distorted or compressed substance returns
to its former shape or volume.

These simple methods of storing energy will serve to illustrate the general principles upon
which such storage depends:

1. To store energy, energy must be expended, or work done.

2. The work must be against some force, such as gravity or elasticity, which can undo the work,
i.e., bring about an effect opposite to that of the work.

3. The stored energy becomes active (kinetic) as the force through which the energy was stored
undoes the work, or puts the substance upon which the work was done into its former condition
(gravity causing bodies to fall, etc.).

These principles are further illustrated by the

*Storing of Energy through Chemical Means.*—A good example of storing energy by chemical means
is that of decomposing water with electricity. If a current of electricity is passed through
acidulated water in a suitable apparatus (Fig. 82), the water separates into its component
gases, oxygen and hydrogen. These gases now have power (energy) which they did not possess
before they were separated. The hydrogen will burn in the oxygen, giving heat; and if the two
gases are mixed in the right proportions and then ignited, they explode with violence. This
energy was derived from the electricity. It was stored by decomposing the water.

                                [Fig. 82]

  Fig. 82—*Storing energy by chemical means.* Apparatus for decomposing
                         water with electricity.

Energy is stored by chemical means by causing it to do work in opposition to the force of chemism,
or chemical affinity. Instead of changing the form of bodies or moving them against gravity,
it overcomes the force that causes atoms to unite and to hold together after they have united.
Since in most cases the atoms on separating from any given combination unite at once to form
other combinations, we may say that energy is stored when strong chemical combinations are
broken up and weak ones formed. Energy stored by this means becomes active when the atoms of
weak combinations unite to form combinations that are strong.(70)

*How Plants store the Sun’s Energy.*—The earth’s supply of energy comes from the sun. While
much of this, after warming and lighting the earth’s surface, is lost by radiation, a portion
of it is stored up and retained. The sun’s energy is stored both through the force of gravity(71)
and by chemical means, the latter being the more important of the two methods. Plants supply
the means for storing it chemically (Fig. 83). Attention has already been called to the fact
(page 112) that growing plants are continually taking carbon dioxide into their leaves from
the air. This they decompose, adding the carbon to compounds in their tissues and returning
the oxygen to the air. It is found, however, that this process does not occur unless the plants
are exposed to sunlight. The sunlight supplies the energy for overcoming the attraction between
the atoms of oxygen and the atoms of carbon, while the plant itself serves as the instrument
through which the sunlight acts. The energy for decomposing the carbon dioxide then comes from
the sun, and through the decomposition of the carbon dioxide the sun’s energy is stored—becomes
potential. It remains stored until the carbon of the plant again unites with the oxygen of
the air, as in combustion.

                                [Fig. 83]

   Fig. 83—*Nature’s device* for storing energy from the sun. See text.

*The Sun’s Energy in Food and Oxygen.*—Food is derived directly or indirectly from plants and
sustains the same relation to the oxygen of the air as do the plants themselves. (The elements
in the food have an attraction for the oxygen, but are separated chemically from it.) On account
of this relation they have potential energy—the energy derived through the plant from the sun.
When a person eats the food and breathes the oxygen, this energy becomes the possession of
the body. It is then converted into kinetic energy as the needs of the body require.

                                [Fig. 84]

  Fig. 84—*Simple apparatus* for illustrating transformation of energy.
      Potential energy is converted into heat and heat into motion.

*From the Sun to the Cells.*—It thus appears that the body comes into possession of energy,
and is able to use it, through a series of transferences and transformations that can be traced
back to the sun.(72) Coming to the earth as kinetic energy, it is transformed into potential
energy and stored in the compounds of plants and in the oxygen of the air. Through the food
and the oxygen the potential energy is transferred to the cells of the body. Then by the uniting
of the food and the oxygen at the cells (oxidation), the potential becomes kinetic energy and
is used by the body in doing its work. The phrase "Child of the Sun" has sometimes been applied
to man to express his dependence upon the sun for his supply of energy.

*Why Oxygen and Food are Both Necessary.*—The necessity for introducing both oxygen and food
into the body for the purpose of supplying energy is now apparent. The energy which is used
in the body is not the energy of food alone. Nor is it the energy of oxygen alone. It belongs
to both. It is due to their attraction for each other and their condition of separation. It
cannot, therefore, become kinetic except through their union. To introduce one of these substances
into the body without the other, would neither introduce the energy nor set it free. They must
both be introduced into the body and there caused to unite.

*Bodily Control of Energy.*—A fact of importance in the supply of energy to the body is that
the rate of transformation (changing of potential to kinetic) is just sufficient for its needs.
It is easily seen that too rapid or too slow a rate would prove injurious. The oxidations at
the cells are, therefore, under such control that the quantity of kinetic energy supplied to
the body as a whole, and to the different organs, is proportional to the work that is done.
This is attained, in part at least, through the ability of the body to store up the food materials
and hold them in reserve until they are to be oxidized (page 180).

*Animal Heat and Motion.*—Most of the body’s energy is expended as heat in keeping warm. It
is estimated that as much as five sixths of the whole amount is used in this way. The proportion,
however, varies with different persons and is not constant in the same individual during different
seasons of the year. This heat is used in keeping the body at that temperature which is best
suited to carrying on the vital processes. All parts of the body, through oxidation, furnish
heat. Active organs, however, such as the muscles, the brain, and the glands (especially the
liver), furnish the larger share. The blood in its circulation serves as a heat distributer
for the body and keeps the temperature about the same in all its parts (page 33).

Next to the production of heat, in the consumption of the body’s energy, is the production
of motion. This topic will be considered in the study of the muscular system (Chapter XV).

*Some Questions of Hygiene.*—The heat-producing capacity of the body sustains a very important
relation to the general health. A sudden chill may result in a number of derangements and is
supposed to be a predisposing cause of colds. One’s capacity for producing heat may be so low
that he is unable to respond to a sudden demand for heat, as in going from a warm room into
a cold one. As a consequence, the body is unable to protect itself against unavoidable exposures.

Impairment of the heat-producing capacity is brought about in many ways. Several diseases do
this directly, or indirectly, to quite an extent. In health too great care in protecting the
body from cold is the most potent cause of its impairment. Staying in rooms heated above a
temperature of 70° F., wearing clothing unnecessarily heavy, and sleeping under an excess of
bed clothes, all diminish the power of the body to produce heat. They accustom it to producing
only a small amount, so that it does not receive sufficient of what might be called heat-producing
exercise. Lack of physical exercise in the open air, as well as too much time spent in poorly
lighted and ventilated rooms, tends also to reduce one’s ability to produce heat. Moreover,
since most of the heat of the body comes from the union of oxygen and food materials at the
cells, a lack of either of these will interfere with the production of heat.

*Results of Exhaustion.*—Through overwork, or excesses in pleasurable pursuits, one may make
greater demands upon the energy of his body than it can properly supply. The resulting condition,
known as exhaustion, is not only a matter of temporary inconvenience, but may through repetition
lead to a serious impairment of the health. It should be noted, in this connection, that the
energy of the body is spent in two general ways: first, in carrying on the vital processes;
and second, in the performance of voluntary activities. Since, in all cases, there is a limit
to one’s energy, it is easily possible to expend so much in the voluntary activities that the
amount left is not sufficient for the vital processes. This leads to various disturbances and,
among other things, renders the body less able to supply itself with energy.

*The Problem of Increasing One’s Energy.*—Since the energy supply is kept up through the food
and the oxygen, it might be inferred that the introduction of these substances into the body
in larger amounts would increase the energy at one’s disposal. This does not necessarily follow.
Oxidation at the cells is preceded by digestion, absorption, circulation, and assimilation.
It is followed and influenced by the removal of wastes from the body. A careful study of the
problem leads to the conclusion that while the energy supply to the body does depend upon the
introduction of the proper amounts of food and oxygen, it also depends upon the efficiency
of the vital processes. The maximum amount of energy may, therefore, be expected when the body
is in a condition of perfect health. Hence, one desiring to increase the amount of his energy
must give attention to all those conditions that improve the health.

*Effect of Stimulants on the Energy Supply.*—In the effort to get out of the body as much as
possible of work or of pleasure, various stimulants, such as alcohol, tobacco, and strong tea
and coffee, have been used. Though these have the effect of giving a temporary feeling of strength
and of enabling the individual in some instances to accomplish results which he could not otherwise
have brought about, the general effect of their use is to lessen, rather than to increase,
the sum total of bodily power. The student, for example, who drinks strong coffee in order
to study late at night is able to command less energy on the day following. While enabling
him to draw upon his reserve of nervous power for the time being, the coffee deprives him of
sleep and needed rest.

The danger of stimulants, so far as energy is concerned, is this: they tend to exhaust the
bodily reserve so that there is not sufficient left for properly running the vital processes.
Evidences of their weakening effect are found in the feeling of discomfort and lassitude which
result when stimulants to which the body has become accustomed are withdrawn. Not until one
gets back his bodily reserve is he able to work normally and effectively. Increase in bodily
energy comes through health and not through the use of stimulants.

*Summary.*—The body requires a continuous supply of energy. To obtain this supply, materials
possessing potential, or stored-up, energy are introduced into it. The free oxygen of the air
and the substances known as foods, on account of the chemical relations which they sustain
to each other, contain potential energy and are utilized for supplying the body. So long as
the foods are not oxidized, the energy remains in the potential form, but in the process of
oxidation the potential energy is changed to kinetic energy and made to do the work of the body.

*Exercises.*—1. In what different ways does the body use energy?

2. Show that a stone lying against the earth has no energy, while the same stone above the
earth has energy.

3. How does potential energy differ from kinetic energy?

4. What kind of energy is possessed by a bent bow? By a revolving wheel? By a coiled spring?
By the wind? By gunpowder?

5. How does decomposing water with electricity store energy?

6. Account for the energy possessed by the oxygen of the air and food substances.

7. Trace the energy supply of the body back to the sun.

8. Why must both oxygen and food be introduced into the body in order to supply it with energy?

9. How may overwork and overexercise diminish the energy supply of the body?

10. How may one increase the amount of his energy?

PRACTICAL WORK

*Suggested Experiments.*—1. The change of kinetic into potential energy may be shown by stretching
a piece of rubber, by lifting a weight, and by separating the armature from a magnet.

2. The change of potential into kinetic energy may be shown by letting weights fall to the
ground, by releasing the end of a piece of stretched rubber, and by burning substances.

3. The change of one form of kinetic energy to another may be illustrated by rubbing together
two pieces of wood until they are heated, by ringing a bell, and by causing motion in air or
in water by heating them. If suitable apparatus is at hand, the transformation of electrical
energy into heat, light, sound, and mechanical motion can easily be shown.

4. A weight connected by a cord with some small machine and made to run it, will help the pupil
to grasp the general principles in the storage of energy through gravity. A vessel of water
on a high support from which the water is siphoned on to a small water wheel will serve the
same purpose.

5. The storing of energy by chemical means may be illustrated by decomposing potassium chlorate
with heat or by decomposing water by means of a current of electricity.

6. Study the transfer of energy from the body to surrounding objects, as in moving substances
and lifting weights.

Fill a half gallon jar two thirds full of water and carefully take the temperature with a chemical
thermometer. Hold the hand in the water for four or five minutes and take the temperature again.
Inference.

CHAPTER XIII - GLANDS AND THE WORK OF EXCRETION

In our study so far we have been concerned mainly with the introduction of materials into the
body. We are now to consider the removal of materials from the body. The structures most directly
concerned in this work are known as

*Glands.*—As generally understood, glands are organs that prepare special liquids in the body
and pour them out upon free surfaces. These liquids, known as secretions, are used for protecting
exposed parts, lubricating surfaces that rub against each other, digesting food, and for other
purposes. They differ widely in properties as well as in function, but are all alike in being
composed chiefly of water. The water, in addition to being necessary to the work of particular
fluids, serves in all cases as a carrier of solid substances which are dissolved in it.

*General Structure of Glands.*—While the various glands differ greatly in size, form, and purpose,
they present striking similarities in structure. All glands contain the following parts:

1. Gland, or secreting, cells. These are specialized cells for the work of secretion and are
the active agents in the work of the gland. They are usually cubical in shape.

2. A basement membrane. This is a thin, connective tissue support upon which the secreting
cells rest.

3. A network of capillary and lymph vessels. These penetrate the tissues immediately beneath
the secreting cells.

4. A system of nerve fibers which terminate in the secreting cells and in the walls of the
blood vessels passing to the glands.

These structures—secreting cells, basement membrane, capillary and lymph vessels, and nerve
fibers—form the essential parts of all glands. The capillaries and the lymph vessels supply
the secreting cells with fluid, and the nerves control their activities.

*Kinds of Glands.*—Glands differ from one another chiefly in the arrangement of their essential
parts.(73) The most common plan is that of arranging the parts around a central cavity formed
by the folding or pitting of an exposed surface. Many such glands are found in the mucous membrane,
especially that lining the alimentary canal, and are most numerous in the stomach, where they
supply the gastric juice. If these glands have the general form of tubes, they are called tubular
glands; if sac-like in shape, they are called saccular glands. Both the tubular and the saccular
glands may, by branching, form a great number of similar divisions which are connected with
one another, and which communicate by a common opening with the place where the secretion is
used. This forms a compound gland which, depending on the structure of the minute parts, may
be either a compound tubular or a compound saccular gland. The larger of the compound saccular
glands are also called racemose glands, on account of their having the general form of a cluster,
or raceme, similar to that of a bunch of grapes. The general structure of the different kinds
of glands is shown in Fig. 85.

                                [Fig. 85]

Fig. 85—*Diagram illustrating evolution of glands.* A. Simple secreting
surface. 1. Gland cells. 2. Basement membrane. 3. Blood vessel. 4. Nerve.
   B. Simple tubular gland. C. Simple saccular gland. D. Compound
  tubular gland. E. Compound saccular gland. F. A compound racemose
gland with duct passing to a free surface. G. Relation of food canal to
   different forms of glands. The serous coat has a secreting surface.

*Nature of the Secretory Process.*—At one time the gland was regarded merely as a kind of filter
which separated from the blood the ingredients found in its secretions. Recent study, however,
of several facts relating to secretion has led to important modifications of this view. The
secretions of many glands are known to contain substances that are not found in the blood,
or, if present, are there in exceedingly small amounts. Then again the cells of certain glands
have been found to undergo marked changes during the process of secretion. If, for example,
the cells of the pancreas be examined after a period of rest, they are found to contain small
granular bodies. On the other hand, if they are examined after a period of activity, the granules
have disappeared and the cells themselves have become smaller (Fig. 86). The granules have
no doubt been used up in forming the secretion. These and other facts have led to the conclusion
that secretion is, in part, the separation of materials without change from the blood, and,
in part, a process by which special substances are prepared and added to the secretion. According
to this view the gland plays the double rôle of a filtering apparatus and of a manufacturing organ.

                                [Fig. 86]

Fig. 86—*Secreting cells from the pancreas* (after Langley). A. After a
 period of rest. B. After a short period of activity. C. After a period
  of prolonged activity. In A and B the nuclei are concealed by the
           granules that accumulate during the resting period.

*Kinds of Secretion.*—In a general way all the liquids produced by glands may be considered
as belonging to one or the other of two classes, known as the useful and the useless secretions.
To the first class belong all the secretions that serve some purpose in the body, while the
second includes all those liquids that are separated as waste from the blood. The first are
usually called true secretions, or secretions proper, while the second are called excretions.
The most important glands producing liquids of the first class are those of digestion (Chapter X).

*Excretory Work of Glands.*—The process of removing wastes from the body is called excretion.
While in theory excretion may be regarded as a distinct physiological act, it is, in fact,
leaving out the work of the lungs, but a phase of the work of glands. From the cells where
they are formed, the waste materials pass into the lymph and from the lymph they find their
way into the blood. They are removed from the blood by glands and then passed to the exterior
of the body.

*The Necessity for Excretion* is found in the results attending oxidation and other chemical
changes at the cells (page 107). Through these changes large quantities of materials are produced
that can no longer take any part in the vital processes. They correspond to the ashes and gases
of ordinary combustion and form wastes that must be removed. The most important of these substances,
as already noted (page 110), are carbon dioxide, water, and urea.(74) A number of mineral salts
are also to be included with the waste materials. Some of these are formed in the body, while
others, like common salt, enter as a part of the food. They are solids, but, like the urea,
leave the body dissolved in water.

Waste products, if left in the body, interfere with its work (some of, them being poisons),
and if allowed to accumulate, cause death. Their removal, therefore, is as important as the
introduction of food and oxygen into the body. The most important of the excretory glands are

*The Kidneys.*—The kidneys are two bean-shaped glands, situated in the back and upper portion
of the abdominal cavity, one on each side of the spinal column. They weigh from four to six
ounces each, and lie between the abdominal wall and the peritoneum. Two large arteries from
the aorta, called the renal arteries, supply them with blood, and they are connected with the
inferior vena cava by the renal veins. They remove from the blood an exceedingly complex liquid,
called the urine, the principal constituents of which are water, salts of different kinds,
coloring matter, and urea. The kidneys pass their secretion by two slender tubes, the ureters,
to a reservoir called the bladder (Fig. 87).

                                [Fig. 87]

   Fig. 87—*Relations of the kidneys.* (Back view.) 1. The kidneys. 2.
 Ureters. 3. Bladder. 4. Aorta. 5. Inferior vena cava. 6. Renal arteries.
                             7. Renal veins.

*Structure of the Kidneys.*—Each kidney is a compound tubular gland and is composed chiefly
of the parts concerned in secretion. The ureter serves as a duct for removing the secretion,
while the blood supplies the materials from which the secretion is formed. On making a longitudinal
section of the kidney, the upper end of the ureter is found to expand into a basin-like enlargement
which is embedded in the concave side of the kidney. The cavity within this enlargement is
called the pelvis of the kidney, and into it project a number of cone-shaped elevations from
the kidney substance, called the pyramids (Fig. 88).

From the summits of the pyramids extend great numbers of very small tubes which, by branching,
penetrate to all parts of the kidneys. These are the uriniferous tubules, and they have their
beginnings at the outer margin of the kidney in many small, rounded bodies called the Malpighian
capsules (A, Fig. 88). Each capsule incloses a cluster of looped capillaries and connects with
a single tubule (Fig. 89). From the capsule the tubule extends toward the concave side of the
kidney and, after uniting with similar tubules from other parts, finally terminates at the
pyramid. Between its origin and termination, however, are several convolutions and one or more
loops or turns. After passing a distance many times greater than from the surface to the center
of the kidney, the tubule empties its contents into the expanded portion of the ureter.

                                [Fig. 88]

    Fig. 88—*Sectional view of kidney.* 1. Outer portion or cortex. 2.
 Medullary portion. 3. Pyramids. 4. Pelvis. 5. Ureter. A. Small section
   enlarged to show the tubules and their connection with the capsules.

                                [Fig. 89]

Fig. 89—*Malpighian capsule* highly magnified (Landois). a. Small artery
  entering capsule and forming cluster of capillaries within. e. Small
vein leaving capsule and branching into c, a second set of capillaries,
                  h. Beginning of uriniferous tubule.

The uriniferous tubules are lined with secreting cells. These differ greatly at different places,
but they all rest upon a basement membrane and are well supplied with capillaries. These cells
provide one means of separating wastes from the blood (Fig. 90).

                                [Fig. 90]

  Fig. 90—*Diagram illustrating renal circulation.* 1. Branch from renal
artery. 2. Branch from renal vein. 3. Small artery branches, one of which
  enters a Malpighian capsule (5). 6. Small vein leaving the capsule and
branching into the capillaries (7) which surround the uriniferous tubules.
4. Small veins which receive blood from the second set of capillaries. 8.
                Tubule showing lining of secreting cells.

*Blood Supply to the Kidneys.*—The method by which the kidneys do their work is suggested by
the way in which the blood circulates through them. The renal artery entering each kidney divides
into four branches and these send smaller divisions to all parts of the kidney. At the outer
margin of the kidney, called the cortex, the blood is passed through two sets of capillaries.
The first forms the clusters in the Malpighian capsules and receives the blood directly from
the smallest arteries. The second forms a network around the uriniferous tubules and receives
the blood which has passed from the capillary clusters into a system of small veins (Fig. 90).
From the last set of capillaries the blood is passed into veins which leave the kidneys where
the artery branches enter, uniting there to form the main renal veins.

*Work of the Kidneys.*—Why should the blood pass through two systems of capillaries in the
kidneys? This is because the separation of waste is done in part by the Malpighian capsules
and in part by the uriniferous tubules. Water and salts are removed chiefly at the capsules,
while the remaining solid constituents of the urine pass through the secreting cells that line
the tubules. It was formerly believed that the kidneys obtained their secretion by a process
of filtration from the blood, but this belief has been gradually modified. The prevailing view
now is that the processes of filtration and secretion are both carried on by the kidneys,—that
the capillary clusters in the Malpighian bodies serve as delicate filters for the separation
of water and salts, while the secreting cells of the tubules separate substances by the process
of secretion.

On account of the large volume of blood passing through the kidneys this liquid is still a
bright red color as it flows into the renal veins (Fig. 90). The kidney cells require oxygen,
but the amount which they remove from the blood is not sufficient to affect its color noticeably.
The blood in the renal veins, having given up most of its impurities and still retaining its
oxygen, is considered the purest blood in the body.

*Urea* is the most abundant solid constituent of the urine and is the chief waste product arising
from the oxidation of nitrogenous substances in the body. Although secreted by the cells lining
the uriniferous tubules, it is not formed in the kidneys. The secreting cells simply separate
it from the blood where it already exists. The muscles also have been suggested as a likely
source of urea, for here the proteids are broken down in largest quantities; but the muscles
produce little if any urea. Its production has been found to be the work of the liver. In the
muscular tissue, and in the other tissues as well, the proteids are reduced to a lower order
of compounds, such as the compounds of ammonia, which pass into the blood and are then taken
up by the liver. By the action of the liver cells these are converted into urea and this is
turned back into the blood. From the blood the urea is separated by the secreting cells of
the kidneys.

*Work of the Liver.*—The liver, already described as an organ of digestion (page 152), assists
in the work of excretion both by changing waste nitrogenous compounds into urea and by removing
from the blood the wastes found in the bile. While the chief work of the liver is perhaps not
that of excretion, its functions may here be summarized. The liver is, first of all, a manufacturing
organ, producing, as we have seen, three distinct products—bile, glycogen, and urea. On account
of the nature of the urea and the bile, the liver is properly classed as an excretory organ;
but in the formation of the glycogen it plays the part of a storage organ. Then, on account
of the use made of the bile after it is passed into the food canal, the liver is also classed
as a digestive organ. These different functions make of the liver an organ of the first importance.

*Excretory Work of the Food Canal.*—The glands connected with the food canal, other than the
liver, while secreting liquids that aid in digestion, also separate waste materials from the
blood. These are passed into the canal, whence they leave the body with the undigested portions
of the food and the waste from the liver. Though the nature and quantity of the materials removed
by these glands have not been fully determined, recent investigations have tended to enhance
the importance attached to this mode of excretion.

*The Perspiratory Glands.*—The perspiratory, or sweat, glands are located in the skin. They
belong to the type of simple tubular glands and are very numerous over the entire surface of
the body. A typical sweat gland consists of a tube which, starting at the surface of the cuticle,
penetrates to the under portion of the true skin and there forms a ball-shaped coil. The coiled
extremity, which forms the secreting portion, is lined with secreting cells and surrounded
by a network of capillaries. The portion of the tube passing from the coil to the surface serves
as a duct (Figs. 91 and 121).

                                [Fig. 91]

 Fig. 91—*Diagram of section through a sweat gland.* a. Outer layer of
 skin or cuticle. b. Dermis or true skin. d, e. Sections of the tube
forming the coiled portion of the gland. c. Duct passing to the surface.
               The other structures of the skin not shown.

The sweat glands secrete a thin, colorless fluid, called perspiration, or sweat. This consists
chiefly of water, but contains a small per cent of salts and of urea. The excretory work of
these glands seems not to be so great as was formerly supposed, but they supplement in a practical
way the work of the kidneys and, during diseases of these organs, show an increase in excretory
function to a marked degree. The perspiration also aids in the regulation of the temperature
of the body (Chapter XVI).

*Excretory Work of the Lungs.*—While the lungs cannot be regarded as glands, they do a work
in the removal of waste from the body which must be considered in the general process of excretion.
They are especially adapted to the removal of gaseous substances from the blood, and it is
through them that most of the carbon dioxide leaves the body. The lungs remove also a considerable
quantity of water. This is of course in the gaseous form, being known as water vapor.

*Ductless Glands and Internal Secretion.*—Midway in function between the glands that secrete
useful liquids and those that remove waste materials from the blood is a class of bodies, found
at various places, known as the ductless glands. They are so named from their having the general
form of glands and from the fact that they have no external openings or ducts. They prepare
special materials which are passed into the blood and which are supposed to exert some beneficial
effect either upon the blood or upon the tissues through which the blood circulates. The most
important of the ductless glands are the thyroid gland, located in the neck; the suprarenal
bodies, situated one just over each kidney; and the thymus gland, a temporary gland in the
upper part of the chest. The spleen and the lymphatic glands (page 68) are also classed with
the ductless glands. The liver, the pancreas, and (according to some authorities) the kidneys,
in addition to their external secretions, produce materials that pass into the blood. They
perform in this way a function like that of the ductless glands. The work of glands in preparing
substances that enter the blood is known as internal secretion.

*Quantity of Excretory Products.*—If the weight of the normal body be taken at intervals, after
growth has been attained, there will be found to be practically no gain or loss from time to
time. This shows that materials are leaving the body as fast as they enter and that the tissues
are being torn down as fast as they are built up. It also shows that substances do not remain
in the body permanently, but only so long perhaps as is necessary for them to give up their
energy, or serve some additional purpose in the ever changing protoplasm. The excretory organs
then remove from the body a quantity of material that is equal in weight to the materials absorbed
by the organs of digestion and respiration. This is estimated for the average individual to
be about five pounds daily. The passage of waste from the body is summarized in Table III.

      TABLE III. THE PASSAGE OF WASTE MATERIALS FROM THE BODY
Materials   State       How Formed       Condition in   How Removed
                        in the Body      the Blood      from the
                                                        Blood
Carbon      Gas         By the           Dissolved in   Separated
dioxide                 oxidation of     the plasma     from the
                        the carbon       and in loose   blood at the
                        of proteids,     combination    alveoli of
                        carbohydrates,   with salts     the lungs
                        and fats.        in the         and then
                                         blood.         forced
                                                        through the
                                                        air passages
                                                        into the
                                                        atmosphere.
Urea        Solid       By the           Dissolved in   Removed by
                        oxidation in     the plasma.    the
                        the liver of                    uriniferous
                        nitrogenous                     tubules of
                        compounds.                      the kidneys
                                                        and to a
                                                        small extent
                                                        by the
                                                        perspiratory
                                                        glands.
Water       Liquid      By the           As water.      Removed by
                        oxidation of                    all the
                        the hydrogen                    organs of
                        of proteids,                    excretion,
                        carbohydrates,                  but in the
                        and fats.                       largest
                        Amount formed                   quantities
                        in the body is                  by the
                        small.                          kidneys and
                                                        the skin.
Salts       Solid                        Dissolved in   By the
                                         the plasma.    kidneys,
                                                        liver, and
                                                        skin.

HYGIENE

The separation of wastes from the body has such a close relation to the health that all conditions
affecting it should receive the most careful attention. Their retention beyond the time when
they should be discharged undoubtedly does harm and is the cause of many bodily disorders.

*Value of Water.*—As a rule the work of excretion is aided by drinking freely of pure water.
As water is the natural dissolver and transporter of materials in the body, it is generally
conceded by hygienists and physicians that the taking of plenty of water is a healthful practice.
People do not as a rule drink a sufficient amount of water, about three pints per day being
required by the average adult, in addition to that contained in the food. Most of the water
should, of course, be taken between meals, although the sipping of a small amount during meals
does not interfere with digestion. As stated elsewhere, the taking of a cup of water on retiring
at night and again on rising in the morning is very generally recommended.

*Protection of Kidneys and Liver.*—The kidneys and liver are closely related in their work
and in many instances are injured or benefited by the same causes. Both, as already stated
(page 124), are liable to injury from an excess of proteid food, especially meats, and also
by a condition of inactivity of the bowels (page 166). The free use of alcohol also has an
injurious effect on both of these organs.(75) On the other hand, increasing the activity of
the skin has a beneficial effect upon them, especially the kidneys. Exercise and bathing, which
tend to make the skin more active, are valuable aids both in ridding the body of impurities
and in lessening the work of the other excretory organs. One having a disease of the kidneys,
however, needs to exercise great care in bathing on account of the bad results which follow
getting chilled.

