It so happened, under his spiritual sway, that a cruel famine began to prevail in the city
of Mentz and its adjacent parts, insomuch that in a short time numbers of the poorer people
fell victims to utter want. Crowds of wretches were to be seen assembled before the Archbishop's
palace in the act of beseeching with cries and prayers for some mitigation of their heavy lot.

But their harsh lord refused to afford relief out of his own substance, reproaching them at
the same time as the authors of their own calamity by their indolence and want of economy.
But the poor souls were mad for food, and in frightful and threatening accents cried out--

"Bread, bread!"

Fearing the result, Bishop Hatto ordered a vast number of hungry souls to range themselves
in order in one of his empty barns under the pretence of supplying them with provisions. Then,
having closed the doors, he commanded his minions to fire the place, in which all fell victims
to the flames. When he heard the death shouts and shrieks of the unhappy poor, turning towards
the menial parasites who abetted his crime he said--

"Hark you! how the mice squeak!"

But Heaven that witnessed the deed did not permit its vengeance to sleep. A strange and unheard
of death was preparing to loose its terrors upon the sacrilegious prelate. For behold, there
arose out of the yet warm ashes of the dead an innumerable throng of mice which were seen to
approach the Bishop, and to follow him whithersoever he went. At length he flew into one of
his steepest and highest towers, but the mice climbed over the walls. He closed every door
and window, yet after him they came, piercing their way through the smallest nooks and crannies
of the building. They poured in upon him, and covered him from head to foot, in numberless
heaps. They bit, they scratched, they tortured his flesh, till they nearly devoured him. So
great was the throng that the more his domestics sought to beat them off, the more keen and
savagely, with increased numbers, did they return to the charge. Even where his name was found
placed upon the walls and tapestries they gnawed it in their rage away.

In this frightful predicament the Bishop, finding that he could obtain no help on land, bethought
of taking himself to the water. A tower was hastily erected upon the Rhine. He took ship and
shut himself up there. Enclosed within double walls, and surrounded by water, he flattered
himself that the rushing stream would effectually check the rage of his enemies. Here too,
however, the vengeance of offended Heaven gave them entrance. Myriads of mice took to the stream,
and swam and swam, and though myriads of them were swept away, an innumerable throng still
reached the spot. Again they climbed and clattered up the walls. The Bishop heard their approach.
It was his last retreat. They rushed in upon him with more irresistible fury than before, and,
amidst stifled cries of protracted suffering, Bishop Hatto at length rendered up his cruel
and avaricious soul.

THE DANCERS.

The Sabbath-day drew to a close in the summer-tide of the year of grace one thousand and one,
and the rustics of Ramersdorf amused themselves with a dance, as was their wont to do, in the
courtyard of the monastery. It was a privilege that they had enjoyed time immemorial, and it
had never been gainsaid by the abbots who were dead and gone, but Anselm von Lowenberg, the
then superior of the convent, an austere, ascetic man, who looked with disdain and dislike
on all popular recreations, had long set his face against it, and had, moreover, tried every
means short of actual prohibition to put an end to the profane amusement. The rustics, however,
were not to be debarred by his displeasure from pursuing, perhaps, their only pleasure; and
though the pious abbot discountenanced their proceedings, they acquiesced not in his views,
and their enjoyment was not one atom the less.

The day had been very beautiful, and the evening was, if possible, more so. Gaily garbed maidens
of the village and stalwart rustics filled the courtyard of the convent. A blind fiddler, who
had fiddled three generations off the stage, sat in front of a group of elders of either sex,
who, though too old and too stiff to partake in the active and exciting amusement, were still
young enough to enjoy looking on. A few shaven crowns peered from the latticed casements which
looked out on to the merry scene. The music struck up, the dance began. Who approaches? Why
are so many anxious glances cast in yonder direction? It is the Abbot.

"Cease your fooling," he spake to them, in a solemn tone; "profane not the place nor the day
with your idle mirth. Go home, and pray in your own homes for the grace of the Lord to govern
ye, for ye are wicked and wilful and hard of heart as the stones!"

He waved his hand as if to disperse them, but his words and his action were equally unheeded
by the dancers and the spectators.

"Forth, vile sinners!" he pursued. "Forth from these walls, or I will curse ye with the curse."

Still they regarded him not to obey his behest, although they so far noticed his words as to
return menacing look for look, and muttered threats for threat with him. The music played on
with the same liveliness, the dancers danced as merrily as ever, and the spectators applauded
each display of agility.

"Well, then," spake the Abbot, bursting with rage, "an ye cease not, be my curse on your head--there
may ye dance for a year and a day!"

He banned them bitterly; with uplifted hands and eyes he imprecated the vengeance of Heaven
on their disobedience. He prayed to the Lord to punish them for the slight of his directions.
Then he sought his cell to vent his ire in solitude.

From that hour they continued to dance until a year and a day had fully expired. Night fell,
and they ceased not; day dawned, and they danced still. In the heat of noon, in the cool of
the evening, day after day there was no rest for them, their saltation was without end. The
seasons rolled over them. Summer gave place to autumn, winter succeeded summer, and spring
decked the fields with early flowers, as winter slowly disappeared, yet still they danced on,
through coursing time and changing seasons, with unabated strength and unimpaired energy. Rain
nor hail, snow nor storm, sunshine nor shade, seemed to affect them. Round and round and round
they danced, in heat and cold, in damp and dry, in light and darkness. What were the seasons--what
the times or the hour or the weather to them? In vain did their neighbours and friends try
to arrest them in their wild evolutions; in vain were attempts made to stop them in their whirling
career; in vain did even the Abbot himself interpose to relieve them from the curse he had
laid on them, and to put a period to the punishment of which he had been the cause. The strongest
man in the vicinity held out his hand and caught one of them, with the intention of arresting
his rotation, and tearing him from the charmed circle, but his arm was torn from him in the
attempt, and clung to the dancer with the grip of life till his day was done. The man paid
his life as the forfeit of his temerity. No effort was left untried to relieve the dancers,
but every one failed. The sufferers themselves, however, appeared quite unconscious of what
was passing. They seemed to be in a state of perfect somnambulism, and to be altogether unaware
of the presence of any persons, as well as insensible to pain or fatigue. When the expiration
of their punishment arrived, they were all found huddled together in the deep cavity which
their increasing gyrations had worn in the earth beneath them. It was a considerable time before
sense and consciousness returned to them, and indeed they never after could be said to enjoy
them completely, for, though they lived long, they were little better than idiots during the
remainder of their lives.

THE LITTLE SHROUD.

There was once a woman who had a little son of about seven years old, who was so lovely and
beautiful that no one could look upon him without being kind to him, and he was dearer to her
than all the world beside. It happened that he suddenly fell ill and died, and his mother would
not be comforted, but wept for him day and night. Shortly after he was buried he showed himself
at night in the places where he had been used in his lifetime to sit and play, and if his mother
wept, he wept also, and when the morning came he departed. Since his mother never ceased weeping,
the child came one night in the little white shroud in which he had been laid in his coffin,
and with the chaplet upon his head, and seating himself at her feet, upon the bed, he cried--

"O mother, mother, give over crying, else I cannot stop in my coffin, for my shroud is never
dry because of your tears, for they fall upon it."

When his mother heard this she was sore afraid, and wept no more. And the babe came upon another
night, holding in his hand a little taper, and he said--

"Look, mother, my shroud is now quite dry, and I can rest in my grave."

Then she bowed to the will of Providence, and bore her sorrow with silence and patience, and
the little child returned not again, but slept in his underground bed.

THE ARCH ROGUE.

There once lived, years ago, a man known only by the name of the Arch Rogue. By dint of skill
in the black art, and all arts of imposition, he drove a more flourishing trade than all the
rest of the sorcerers of the age. It was his delight to travel from one country to another
merely to play upon mankind, and no living soul was secure, either in house or field, nor could
properly call them his own.

Now his great reputation for these speedy methods of possessing himself of others' property
excited the envy of a certain king of a certain country, who considered them as no less than
an invasion of his royal prerogative. He could not sleep a wink for thinking about it, and
he despatched troops of soldiers, one after another, with strict orders to arrest him, but
all their search was in vain. At length, after long meditation, the king said to himself--

"Only wait a little, thou villain cutpurse, and yet I will have thee."

Forthwith he issued a manifesto, stating that the royal mercy would be extended to so light-fingered
a genius, upon condition that he consented to appear at court and give specimens of his dexterity
for his majesty's amusement.

One afternoon, as the king was standing at his palace window enjoying the fine prospect of
woods and dales, over which a tempest appeared to be then just gathering, some one suddenly
clapped him upon the shoulder, and on looking round he discovered a very tall, stout, dark-whiskered
man close behind him, who said--

"Here I am."

"Who are you?" inquired the king.

"He whom you look for."

The king uttered an exclamation of surprise, not unmixed with fear, at such amazing assurance.
The stranger continued, "Don't be alarmed. Only keep your word with me, and I will prove myself
quite obedient to your orders."

This being agreed on, the king acquainted his royal consort and the whole court that the great
sleight-of-hand genius had discovered himself, and soon, in a full assembly, his majesty proceeded
to question him, and lay on him his commands.

"Mark what I say," he said, "nor venture to dispute my orders. To begin, do you see yon rustic,
not far from the wood, busy ploughing?"

The conjurer nodded assent.

"Then go," continued the king,--"go and rob him of his plough and oxen without his knowing
anything about it."

The king flattered himself that this was impossible, for he did not conceive how the conjurer
could perform such a task in the face of open day,--and if he fail, thought he, I have him
in my power, and will make him smart.

The conjurer proceeded to the spot, and as the storm appeared to increase, the rain beginning
to pour down in torrents, the countryman, letting his oxen rest, ran under a tree for shelter,
until the rain should have ceased. Just then he heard some one singing in the wood. Such a
glorious song he had never heard before in all his life. He felt wonderfully enlivened, and,
as the weather continued dull, he said to himself--

"Well, there's no harm in taking a look. Yes; I'll see what sport is stirring," and away he
slipped into the wood, still further and further, in search of the songster.

In the meanwhile the conjurer was not idle. He changed places with the rustic, taking care
of the oxen while their master went searching through the wood. Darting out of the thicket,
in a few moments he had slashed off the oxen's horns and tails, and stuck them, half hid, in
the ploughman's last furrow. He then drove off the beasts pretty sharply towards the palace.
In a short time the rustic found his way back, and looking towards the spot for his oxen could
see nothing of them. Searching on all sides, he came at last to examine the furrow, and beheld,
to his horror, the horns and tails of his poor beasts sticking out of the ground. Imagining
that a thunderbolt must have struck the beasts, and the earth swallowed them up, he poured
forth a most dismal lamentation over his lot, roaring aloud until the woods echoed to the sound.
When he was tired of this, he bethought him of running home to find a pick and a spade to dig
his unlucky oxen out of the earth as soon as possible.

As he went he was met by the king and the conjurer, who inquired the occasion of his piteous
lamentation.

"My oxen! my poor oxen!" cried the boor, and then he related all that had happened to him,
entreating them to go with him to the place. The conjurer said--

"Why don't you see if you cannot pull the oxen out again by the horns or by the tail?"

With this the rustic, running back, seized one of the tails, and, pulling with all his might,
it gave way and he fell backward.

"Thou hast pulled thy beast's tail off," said the conjurer. "Try if thou canst succeed better
with his horns. If not, thou must even dig them out."

Again the rustic tried with the same result, while the king laughed very heartily at the sight.
As the worthy man now appeared excessively troubled at his misfortunes, the king promised him
another pair of oxen, and the rustic was content.

"You have made good your boast," said the king to the conjurer, as they returned to the palace;
"but now you will have to deal with a more difficult matter, so muster your wit and courage.
To-night you must steal my favourite charger out of his stable, and let nobody know who does it."

Now, thought the king, I have trapped him at last, for he will never be able to outwit my master
of the horse, and all my grooms to boot. To make the matter sure, he ordered a strong guard
under one of his most careful officers to be placed round the stable court. They were armed
with stout battle-axes, and were enjoined every half-hour to give the word, and pace alternately
through the court. In the royal stables others had the like duty to perform, while the master
of the horse himself was to ride the favourite steed the whole time, having been presented
by the king with a gold snuff-box, from which he was to take ample pinches in order to keep
himself awake, and give signal by a loud sneeze. He was also armed with a heavy sword, with
which he was to knock the thief on the head if he approached.

The rogue first arrayed himself in the master of the bedchamber's clothes, without his leave.
About midnight he proceeded to join the guards, furnished with different kinds of wine, and
told them that the king had sent him to thank them for so cheerfully complying with his orders.
He also informed them that the impostor had been already caught and secured, and added that
the king had given permission for the guards to have a glass or two, and requested that they
would not give the word quite so loudly, as her majesty had not been able to close her eyes.
He then marched into the stables, where he found the master of the horse astride the royal
charger, busily taking snuff and sneezing at intervals. The master of the bedchamber poured
him out a sparkling glass to drink to the health of his majesty, who had sent it, and it looked
too excellent to resist. Both master and guards then began to jest over the Arch Rogue's fate,
taking, like good subjects, repeated draughts--all to his majesty's health. At length they
began to experience their effects. They gaped and stretched, sank gradually upon the ground,
and fell asleep. The master, by dint of fresh pinches, was the last to yield, but he too blinked,
stopped the horse, which he had kept at a walk, and said--

"I am so confoundedly sleepy I can hold it no longer. Take you care of the charger for a moment.
Bind him fast to the stall--and just keep watch."

Having uttered these words, he fell like a heavy sack upon the floor and snored aloud. The
conjurer took his place upon the horse, gave it whip and spur, and galloped away through the
sleeping guards, through the court gates, and whistled as he went.

Early in the morning the king, eager to learn the result, hastened to his royal mews, and was
not a little surprised to find the whole of his guards fast asleep upon the ground, but he
saw nothing of his charger.

"What is to do here?" he cried in a loud voice. "Get up; rouse, you idle varlets!"

At last one of them, opening his eyes, cried out--

"The king! the king!"

"Ay, true enough, I am here," replied his majesty, "but my favourite horse is not. Speak, answer
on the instant."

While the affrighted wretches, calling one to another, rubbed their heavy eyes, the king was
examining the stalls once more, and, stumbling over his master of the horse, turned and gave
him some hearty cuffs about the ears. But the master only turned upon the other side, and grumbled--

"Let me alone, you rascal, my royal master's horse is not for the like of you."

"Rascal!" exclaimed the king, "do you know who it is?" and he was just about to call his attendants,
when he heard hasty footsteps, and the conjurer stood before him.

"My liege," he said, "I have just returned from an airing on your noble horse. He is, indeed,
a fine animal, but once or so I was obliged to give him the switch."

The king felt excessively vexed at the rogue's success, but he was the more resolved to hit
upon something that should bring his fox skin into jeopardy at last. So he thought, and the
next day he addressed the conjurer thus--

"Thy third trial is now about to take place, and if you are clever enough to carry it through,
you shall not only have your life and liberty, but a handsome allowance to boot. In the other
case you know your fate. Now listen. This very night I command you to rob my queen consort
of her bridal ring, to steal it from her finger, and let no one know the thief or the way of
thieving."

When night approached, his majesty caused all the doors in the palace to be fast closed, and
a guard to be set at each. He himself, instead of retiring to rest, took his station, well
armed, in an easy chair close to the queen's couch.

It was a moonlight night, and about two in the morning the king plainly heard a ladder reared
up against the window, and the soft step of a man mounting it. When the king thought the conjurer
must have reached the top, he called out from the window--

"Let fall."

The next moment the ladder was dashed away, and something fell with a terrible crash to the
ground. The king uttered an exclamation of alarm, and ran down into the court, telling the
queen, who was half asleep, that he was going to see if the conjurer were dead. But the rogue
had borrowed a dead body from the gallows, and having dressed it in his own clothes, had placed
it on the ladder. Hardly had the king left the chamber before the conjurer entered it and said
to the queen in the king's voice--

"Yes, he is stone dead, so you may now go quietly to sleep, only hand me here your ring. It
is too costly and precious to trust it in bed while you sleep."

The queen, imagining it was her royal consort, instantly gave him the ring, and in a moment
the conjurer was off with it on his finger. Directly afterwards the king came back.

"At last," he said, "I have indeed carried the joke too far. I have repaid him. He is lying
there as dead as a door nail. He will plague us no more."

"I know that already," replied the queen. "You have told me exactly the same thing twice over."

"How came you to know anything about it?" inquired his majesty.

"How? From yourself to be sure," replied his consort. "You informed me that the conjurer was
dead, and then you asked me for my ring."

"I ask for the ring!" exclaimed the king. "Then I suppose you must have given it to him," continued
his majesty, in a tone of great indignation; "and is it even so at last? By all the saints,
this is one of the most confounded, unmanageable knaves in existence. I never knew anything
to equal it."

Then he informed the queen of the whole affair, though before he arrived at the conclusion
of his tale she was fast asleep.

Soon after it was light in the morning the wily conjurer made his appearance. He bowed to the
earth three times before the queen and presented her with the treasure he had stolen. The king,
though excessively chagrined, could not forbear laughing at the sight.

"Now hear," said he, "thou king of arch rogues. Had I only caught a sight of you through my
fingers as you were coming, you would never have come off so well. As it is, let what is past
be forgiven and forgotten. Take up your residence at my court, and take care that you do not
carry your jokes too far, for in such a case I may find myself compelled to withdraw my favour
from you if nothing worse ensue."

BROTHER MERRY.

In days of yore there was a war, and when it was at an end a great number of the soldiers that
had been engaged in it were disbanded. Among the rest Brother Merry received his discharge,
and nothing more for all he had done than a very little loaf of soldier's bread, and four halfpence
in money. With these possessions he went his way. Now a saint had seated himself in the road,
like a poor beggar man, and when Brother Merry came along, he asked him for charity to give
him something. Then the soldier said--

"Dear beggar man, what shall such as I give you? I have been a soldier, and have just got my
discharge, and with it only a very little loaf and four halfpence. When that is gone I shall
have to beg like yourself."

However, he divided the loaf into four parts, and gave the saint one, with a halfpenny. The
saint thanked him, and having gone a little further along the road seated himself like another
beggar in the way of the soldier. When Brother Merry came up the saint again asked alms of
him, and the old soldier again gave him another quarter of the loaf and another halfpenny.

The saint thanked him, and seated himself in the way a third time, like another beggar, and
again addressed Brother Merry. Brother Merry gave him a third quarter of the loaf, and the
third halfpenny.

