Confidingly and unguardedly you yield to fatigue and give yourself over to rest--what demon
is it that then enters through the open portal, inoculates your heart with a black drop, stirs
up and discolors and poisons with it all your blood until, foul and heavy as lead, it forces
its way through your heart?

Or is it I--I who am that demon! As the dark bottom of a deep well is lighted up and revealed
by the perpendicular rays of the sun only when the water above is quiet and clear as crystal--is
it thus that the true color of my being stands forth from deep sleep when the will-o'-the-wisps
of waking and dreaming are banished, and that color irradiates and fills its domain, and is
just grazed by the abrupt ray of suddenly awaking consciousness?

There it is once for all, and there is no escaping it! What is this darkness? Is it a phantom
and a weakness? Is it only an enemy who challenges you and vanishes away in proportion as your
own self enlarges? Is it death slowly developing in you?

It is intolerable. If this pillow were saturated with mortal poison, you would take the corner
between your lips as the infant takes his mother's breast, and would drink release from your
troubles. But if the poison stood over there in the other corner of the room, the mere ten
paces to reach it would carry you too far back into life again! And yet tomorrow, or a few
days hence, there will be moments when this darkness will suddenly surge up in you and consume
you as though it were fire, so that you shrivel up within yourself and cannot excuse in your
own eyes the shame of living. Yes, even though you can calmly look back upon this thing, smile
at it like a reasonable man and joke about it, even then there is a secret fibre in your being
which yearns for that darkness, which shudders in pride and awe of it, which has a premonition
that in it there is something purer than all light and all joy.

In search of protection from such worrying phantasms I finally opened my eyes and turned toward
the open window. But what I saw outside was so surprising that I closed my eyes again and cried,
"What the devil is that?"

Having recovered my composure and the consciousness that I had senses, I opened my eyes once
more and peered out: but on the ridge-pole of the adjacent farm building, like doves on a German
stable, there still sat at regular intervals five vultures, immovable and waiting. As though
cut out of black paper, they seemed pasted on the gleaming blue morning sky.

"Shameless fellows!" I ejaculated. "I must admit that I have been philosophizing here to myself
like a dead dog; but I am not yet ready for you by a good deal!" They remained quietly sitting
there.

Franz Wilhelm Voigt

Then I jumped out of bed, took an orange from the fruit plate on the table, and threw it at
the creatures. The orange flew neatly between two of them; the vulture perched nearest to its
path straightened up, inquisitively turned his head with the greedy eyes to right and left,
and then drew his head back again. And in their imperturbable, diabolical serenity the old
fellows remained sitting on their perch, as uncanny as the stone gargoyles on the towers of
Notre Dame in Paris.

I was not disposed to let these amiable beasts feast their eyes on me any longer; so I quickly
took my bath, and dressed.

Although this day was still vacation, I made my rounds through the empty bedrooms and said
to the only boy who--because his tuition had not been paid--had been required to spend the
holidays at the boarding school, that he might as well roll over on his other side; on the
morrow he should have once more to get under the douche at six o'clock in the morning. He really
did not need, in vacation time, to pull the wool over my eyes, but even today he tried to make
me believe he was fond of bathing. Not to be outdone in courtesy, I pretended to be convinced
of the fact. And so we separated with mutual satisfaction.

Now I stepped up to the housekeeper's chamber door. As yet, the resounding report--one could
hear it all over the house--with which at evening her bolt was drawn, and in the morning drawn
back, had not announced to us that Donna Leocadia de Silva Soares e Pimentel had arrayed herself
for contact with the hostile sex; therefore I cautiously approached the door and listened.
But when I heard the sound of footsteps within, going back and forth with a tread appropriate
to the name as well as to the bodily frame of the Senhora, I plucked up courage, knocked, and,
retreating a pace, reported that I should breakfast in town. At the moment I could have said
little that would have been more agreeable to the lady. Now she was most happily relieved of
the necessity of dressing decently, early this blessed morning, merely in order to place a
cup on the table before me and fill it with coffee; nevertheless, she assured me in the most
touching tones of her regret that she must dispense with my agreeable company and drink her
coffee alone. I replied that her regret was a source of pride to me, made a bow to the door,
and departed.

In the courtyard I found the five black brethren still perching on the shed roof; I tried to
scare them away by clapping my hands; they did not refer this action to themselves.

When I passed under the window of Donna Leocadia, it opened with a crash, and in a white dressing
jacket that had been kept out of the wash for quite too long a time, the overflowing forms
of the upper part of the lady's body settled into an easy position in the window frame. She
bowed her head of black hair done up in blue and red curlpapers, and rolled her fine great
stupid brown eyes. I merely waved my hat and strode on. At the garden gate I met the mulatto
boy Alcides, who was just bringing the breakfast rolls in an open basket from the main house
of the institution, across the street. I stopped him and asked why he was again carrying the
bread in an open basket, instead of throwing a napkin over it, as he was supposed to do.

"Forgot it," he replied with an unconcerned shrug; for one had to speak to him more emphatically.
I therefore selected from the Portuguese vocabulary of abuse, which is as massive and opulent
as that of any Romance language whatever, a few juicy morsels, and swore that if this carelessness
happened again I would shut the fellow up in the dark chamber and give him twenty-four hours
to fix his duty in mind. He made a grimace.

"You may thank God," I cried, "that I haven't any gloves on. If I had, I would pound your face
until you hadn't an eye or a tooth left in the right place!"

He contemptuously showed his two porcelain rows of white teeth.

In anger I made for him--he turned round, and I drew back for a mighty kick; but to my disgrace,
the mishued curmudgeon knew how to frustrate my effort; the heel of my boot came in all too
slight touch with the hostile posterior, I was hurled about by the momentum of my shot that
missed its mark, and suddenly stood facing in the opposite direction. I had to laugh at myself.
But Alcides made a quick move round the corner of the house. Donna Leocadia, whose corpulence
still filled the window, called to me that I was always too good-natured; I ought not to have
let the rascal run away, but ought to have banged his head several times against the wall.
Then with an undulating lurch she got up and stepped back from the window, to receive the fellow
in her room; she was not so squeamish as I, and she generally, moreover, had not washed her hands.

In the most cheerful frame of mind I now walked along the streets, which were still fairly
cool with the freshness of the morning. I bought a copy of the latest newspaper, seated myself
in the cane chair of a bootblack, got a shine, and read my paper. Then I entered a café and
in deliberate European comfort sipped a cup of coffee with cream, and pitied the Brazilians,
who hastily sat down at the nearest table they could find, stirred an enormous quantity of
sugar in their thimbleful of coffee, poured the mixture down their throats, and rushed out
into the street again, as though there or elsewhere they had anything whatever to do. I enjoyed
my coffee as much as one can enjoy good coffee, and did not commit the impropriety of ordering
a second cup, but bought of the tobacconist in the establishment a package of those cigarettes--not
so much good, as genuine, Brazilian--which are rolled in corn straw instead of in paper. Leaning
against a door-post, I remained standing there, gazed across the street, unrolled one of the
cigarettes, poured the granular black tobacco into the palm of my hand, decanted it back into
the corn leaf, and lighted the preparation. I looked across the street and was infinitely happy,
though there was not much to see. Only a few people were passing in one direction or the other,
for the most part with a newspaper fresh from the press in their hands. One man stood at the
curb and had his boots blacked. A street car went rumbling by; the driver lashed his mules,
one of which kicked out behind and struck the dashboard with both hoofs a thwack that resounded
the length of the street.

Throwing away the stub of my cigarette, I now started off and loitered along. What should I
do? Go to the book store and look at French books--continue my reading in Faubert's letters?
No hurry; nobody will buy them anyway! The air is still too fine.

Or shall I go to the editorial rooms of the German newspaper and see my friend from Vienna,
smoke a decent cigar, talk over the news, talk about young Vienna, about Hermann Bahr who in
his furor teutonicus smashed a beer mug on the head of a Bohemian? About Loris, who is still
a very young man, not permitted as yet to go alone to join his literary friends at the café--his
father insists upon accompanying him--"I tell you what, a marvelous genius!"--?--But the upshot
of the matter will be, he will lock me in when I am not noticing, and will keep me there until
I have ground out an article for his paper. And the weather is really too fine for that.

Thereupon I was roused from my revery by a breath of sultry fragrance. I turned in the direction
from which I heard footsteps, and caught sight of the tropical profile of a young lady, who
with eyes looking straight ahead was going her way. Her simple, handsome face was not yellow,
but of a hot-blooded, fine brown, which as the sign of aboriginal vitality is charming, and
immediately made me breathe hard. Now, as if by chance, a calm glance of the great dark eye,
the white of which was as soft as mother of pearl, fell upon me, and then a second, quick glance,
which toppled me over like a stroke of lightning; thereupon the profile was turned somewhat
rigidly forward again. Never losing sight of the daintily plump figure in the white lace gown,
I gradually made way for her to pass by me; and if I had taken pleasure in contemplation of
the face, I took, if possible, still more pleasure in contemplation of the easy walk which
animated her whole body with its graceful rhythm.

In this manner we approached a cross street.

Then, as she stepped down from the sidewalk, she made a false calculation and swung herself
somewhat too far forward; her foot came down hard upon the pavement, her whole body felt the
shock, she stumbled, and her beauty was gone as quickly as a house built of cards collapses.
I stood still for a moment, then I turned in my tracks, saying, "What a Bœ

otian and Hyperborean you are! Is there anything more fragile than enjoyment? Is there anything
more sensitive to injury than grace? Did you not know that? If you had not followed this poor
girl, she would have cleared the barrier as gracefully as a kitten; now she is as much ashamed
as though you had seen her in her petticoat." I looked once more in her direction; sure enough,
she too was looking round, with a flushed face and stupid, anxious eyes. O these soulful eyes,
eyes like the roe, the antelope, the gazelle, or any other creature known to zoology. God be
with them, and spare me!

Now I at once knew where to go and turned my steps toward the new streets farther out in the
country, which are occupied principally by Germans. There I had a kind of sweetheart, all for
the sake of her eyes. This had come to pass as follows:

After I had been several months in this beautiful and affluent country, and, whether in the
midst of my boys at school or among the people at the theatre, in the circus, or in the café,
kept seeing in the women, to whom I paid eager attention, always the same great dark eyes,
these eyes began to pall upon me. Why? In Germany, by contrast to our cerulean blue, steel
blue, greenish, and iron gray eyes, brown ones had often seemed to me especially beautiful
and touched my heart as nothing else could do. Now they bored me. Always the same apparent
expression of strength, which goes back to the contrast between the dark pupil and the surrounding
white, and in turn between this white and the dusky skin; always, even on the most indifferent
occasions, this pregnant glance, this rolling and melting! "Anyhow," I asked myself one day,
"why have all these people replaced their human eyes with the eyes of animals?" I began, when
on the streets, to look about for light-colored eyes, for glances which had something of the
clearness of the sky or the wave in spring time, something of the lustre and translucency of
a November mist, something of the keen brilliancy of an ice crystal. I paid attention once
more to the people of the Northern Hemisphere, whom heretofore I had avoided, and these people
of the North are, of course, mostly Germans.

Now it happened that one morning in those days I was going my way, and, in order to keep in
the shade, sticking as closely as might be to the houses. Then out of a low window in the ground
floor of one of these houses a hand shot out right before me, holding a dust-cloth, which it
was about to shake; and I should naturally have got the full benefit of the operation. With
a quick grasp I seized the hand by the wrist; and not until I had so secured myself could I
look up to see to whom the hand belonged. The girl stood inclined somewhat forward, leaning
on her other hand, and stared at me with great startled eyes, the most transparent, silvery-gleaming
eyes that I remember ever to have seen.

I was so surprised that I lost all my audacity; but I still kept a firm hold of her hand. And
so she was after all the first to recover her power of speech, and she said, "Pardon me."

"On the contrary, I thank you," I replied, rising on my toes, kissing her hand, and then releasing
it.

She made no answer, her expression became troubled, she struggled with herself, her eyes filled
with tears, and I felt that I had done violence to an innocent heart. That pained me and I
blurted out, "Shake the cloth in my face! I have offended you. It was not my intention; but
let me have my punishment."

"Not for the world!" she responded. "How can a man say such a thing!"

I looked at her in amazement and curiosity. Was that meant to be a reprimand? Did she strike
a blow and pretend the while to put far away from her any such intention? No. Her eyes beamed
appeasement and also appeasingly; surrendering myself to her, I had disarmed her resentment.
Nevertheless, I continued, "He who can say such a thing has no right, then, to wear hair on
his face? I shall presently go straight to the barber's. I have been so proud of my manliness!
But--repulsed with loss! And, to make a clean breast of it, for an opportunity like this I
would gladly remain a foolish youth a long while yet; like silly Jack, you know, in the fairy
tale, who is always doing foolish things; but the princess with the blue eyes does not think
any the worse of him on that account!"

Pricking up her ears and collecting her thoughts, she looked at me half roguishly out of the
corner of her eye; then she shook her head with its heavy braids and said, "I do not understand
you. You are so comical. You must talk quite simply to me."

She looked so charmingly simple that I forgot my speech and watched her standing there, so
youthful and radiant in the window frame, against the dark background of the room. Everything
about her was healthful and strong: her figure in the blue washable dress, her round throat,
her well formed face, in which eyes and teeth gleamed brightly; but the abundance of her chestnut
braids was so heavy that her neck seemed hardly able to support them.

"What sort of follies did silly Jack commit?" she asked when I became silent.

"I don't know myself; but when he came to woo the princess, and was asked what present he had
brought her, he pulled a handful of mud out of his pocket and filled her white hands with it.
She liked that so well that she took him for her husband."

"A handful of mud! Such a dirty fellow! Did she marry him?"

"Yes, indeed! The other suitors had brought her jewels and crowns--she had plently of those
already. But with mud she would have been glad to play, like other children, if the court ladies
had allowed her to. Therefore she now rejoiced in her childish heart, and she thought he would
certainly be the pleasantest husband for her."

"Yes, yes--the fact of the matter is, she was right."

Thus it began, and so it continued.

She was the daughter of a German cabinet-maker, who had developed his business until he had
a prosperous furniture factory. Two years before, her mother had died, and since that time
she had run the household with the most complete devotion, in the way that she had learned,
and as befitted her single-minded, unsophisticated nature. She did all her work as though it
were a benefaction, with whole-souled joy and boundless happiness in her ability. As often
as my way led me near to where she lived, and that was almost daily at the same hour, I looked
in at her window and found her always occupied with some sort of work. We chatted for a quarter
of an hour; she told me what animated her day, asked me about everything that interested her
in my existence, and initiated me into the sphere of her domestic cares. It pleased her that
my needs were few; but that I did not even feel the need of damming up the briskly flowing
stream of my income and making a little lake of it, this appeared to her as frivolity, indeed
as unrighteous, and she endeavored to reform me, to make me more aware of the value of money,
of the money that I had earned, and in some measure to guide my expenditures. I do not mean
to say that she ever made tiresome reprimands or admonitions. Simple and innocent as her mind
was,--whenever she had resolved to bring pressure to bear upon my indifference or my wilfulness,
she pondered the possible method with such affectionate patience that she did not fail to find
a delicate or a touchingly irresistible form. I once brought her a rare orchid, whose fantastic
form and brilliant colors I had so much admired in the shop window that I was unwilling to
allow any other human being to possess it than Mariandel--by this name I called my friend.
She did not say anything so commonplace as that I ought not to have done it, or I ought not
to have spent so much money; she showed the honest joy of a child who is proud to have received
such a costly gift; but she added to her praise of the flower, "It is sacred!"

The expression seemed to me somewhat pompous, as many of her expressions were; nevertheless,
I could not but nod assent, thinking of the virgin forest in which this flower first gleamed
forth through the twilight, as a new miracle rising out of the ruins of innumerable generations
of trees. But Mariandel then continued, "It is a part of your life."

I smiled in astonishment.

"Perhaps you have given for it the hardest and unhappiest of your days of toil."

Such a thought as that did not come into her head on the spur of the moment. I knew at once
that she had excogitated it, and kept it in reserve for a good opportunity of impressing upon
my mind what my money was. And then for days at a time I strove not to employ my money in ways
that ran counter to her honest feeling.

Neither in the city nor in the country did I know anything that afforded me a purer, more genuine
joy than my meetings with this imperturbable, self-contained woman. We had rapidly come to
confidential terms with one another, so that one day without consultation or emotion we said
"Du" to each other--I do not even know whether it was she or I who began the practice.

And now I was once more walking along the broad, hot street with the one-storied houses, once
more on the same side in the shade, which today, to be sure, was deeper than the first time;
for it was still early morning. And now I stood by the window, put my arms on the window-sill
and said, "Good morning, Mariandel, sweetmeats!" And she stood before an ironing board which
rested on the windowsill and the table, and was ironing with a charcoal flat-iron. She put
the iron down on the rest, gave me her firm, warm hand, and said, "Bom dia, senhor doutor!
Passa bem?" and her eye seemed to beam more cordially than ever, and yet could not express
more cordiality than it had expressed before.

She seated herself by the window, put her right hand on the sill, above which my head and shoulders
protruded, and began to speak, turning her head in such a way that I saw now her profile, with
the inconspicuous but firm lines of her nose, mouth, and chin, and the heavy braids of her
lustrous hair about her neck, now her full face beaming upon me; then, however, I forgot all
her other, beauty, in contemplation of the incomprehensibly reposeful and unsullied blue of
her eye. I was never in love with her; never had the sight of her or thoughts of her taken
my breath away; but never was I so full of joyous love for a human being as then for her.

After she had asked questions about this and that and had told me all sorts of things, she
said, "Professor, don't let me forget to tell you: George Bleyle down there at the Mercadinho
is not having very good trade, they say; if you need anything, just bear him in mind. He has
bought at bottom prices a whole invoice of men's furnishings that was put up at auction down
at the dock, and things are very cheap at his shop just now."

And she told what she had purchased for her father, and what her sister-in-law had got for
her husband, named the prices, and praised the quality of the goods. I gazed first at her eyes,
then at the glowing coals within the flat-iron, listened to the tones of her dear, faithful
voice and thought of my home of long ago, of brothers and sisters and friends, of a home of
my own with wife and children in it, of things dear and compelling, for which I could stake
my life; and I tasted the sweetness of one of those moments which do their best to broaden
our hearts, to strengthen them and renew their allegiance.

All at once she stopped speaking, and when I did not notice this she cried out, "Senhor, are
you again failing to listen to me!" "Oh, yes. Henrique Bleyle has put up at auction a cargo
of furnishing goods--"

"O não, senhor, not at all! But you are a discourteous good-for-nothing; you think, 'Just let
her talk!'"

"Missed by a mile, my child! I have been listening to you without hearing what you said. Look,
when I sit down on the curb of a fountain and let myself be enveloped and captivated by its
splashing and tinkling, its silvery spraying, and forget everything, even the fountain, and
think uncommonly pure and good thoughts--don't these thoughts come from the fountain? Do I
not hear them in its plashing, even though I no longer hear the sound of it, and am I, in this
absentmindedness, not more the bondman of the fountain than if I had counted its drops of water?
That is how it was just now. While I listened to your voice and felt your eye upon me, I learned
something better from you than that Bleyle has socks for sale. Nevertheless, I shall buy the
socks from him. But that you help me in my vanity and hastiness not merely to let serious thoughts
enter my mind when they come like a stroke of lightning, but also quietly and modestly to admit
them, to await them, and to attain to the inner core of their sweetness--that is to me more
delightful and more important than all the cargoes of all the continents."

She looked at me with childlike confidence, put her little, warm hand on mine, and said, "You
are not angry with me, Erwin?"

"How could I be angry with you for that? Is there a human being who could be angry with you?
See, Mariandel, the only pain you cause me is the fact that I am not the only one who can take
nothing ill of you!"

"Oh!" she cried, laughing down her shamefacedness like a school-girl, "just ask my brother
and his wife whether they cannot take anything ill of me!"

"Then they are not human beings. There aren't so very many."

"No, my brother is good," she replied, "and Anna too."

"In any case, I shall prove to you that I am ready to help my fellow-man. I shall buy of Henrique
Bleyle a complete new outfit from head to foot, and hope thereby to save him from bankruptcy."

"Not Henrique Bleyle, but George Bleyle at the Mercadinho, and there is no question of bankruptcy.
For Heaven's sake don't say anything of the kind!" She looked at me in the utmost confusion
and with guilty eyes; she had of course emphasized the fact that business was bad--as it was
in general at that time--merely in order to induce me to buy of George Bleyle, since she feared
she could not make me budge by speaking only of the cheapness of his wares.

Now I gave her great pleasure by inquiring at exactly what prices she had made her purchases,
and by asking for advice of various sorts. I did not get much profit from this; the effort
to distinguish between linen, cotton-warp linen, cotton, shirting, and fil d'Écosse caused
me something of a headache. But she was all joy and eagerness.

Then she had to use her iron while it was hot. She lifted one end of the ironing board, drew
a light calico gown over it like a ring, put the board down again, and ironed, gradually letting
the whole of the gown travel across the board.

The shade in which I stood grew smaller, the heat penetrated markedly nearer to me and awakened
my daily desire to go to the city park and sit in the shade of its giant trees and bamboo bushes.
I lighted a cigarette at one of the little glowing eyes of the charcoal flat-iron, and started
away.

"Ate logo, senhor!" said she, using a phrase that corresponds exactly to the Rhenish "So long!"
Since she did not know much Portuguese, she took pleasure in seizing all opportunities to use
the most current expressions; but she used these with such perfect pronunciation that you would
suppose she had complete command of the language.

As was always the case, I was in a peaceful frame of mind when I left her, I was filled with
a sense of cosy comfort which gained all the more piquancy because flavored with an infinitely
delicate bitterness that I could not understand. In a revery I strolled along through the streets
which, because the diminutive houses cast so little shadow, became hotter every minute, and
passed slowly out of the city.

When I looked up again, I had already passed through the great gate in the wall and felt as
though immersed in the more expansive and, from the intermittent shade of shrubs and trees,
more invigorating atmosphere of the great park. I stood still and peered into the depth of
the garden through the silver-gray columns of two gigantic palms. Thickly surrounded by dark
shrubs with a silvery sheen, enormous hedges, and groves of bamboo, a fountain reared the fluttering
banner of its spray from the midst of a black pool confined within a white curb; but the bubbling
pillar did not attain to the height of its dark sylvan background. In the dim background, however,
above the cold deep green of the park, rose a mighty erythrina like a rose-colored flame into
the rich blue air, like a monstrous, fiery syringa. The light coursed hotly down the smooth
trunks of the palms, golden white it curled about the gentle curve of their slender hips, like
frozen silver it weighed upon the serrated palm-leaves, often seeming to slip down and fall,
so that the liberated leaf gave a little leap upward into a new bath of silver; the rigid leaves
of black-green bushes were sown with immobile, penetrating scintillations; above the masses
of dagger-sharp leaves in the grove of bamboo the light swarmed like a golden vapor rolling
up, as it were, in itself; red and white and deep violet and yellow and iridescent blue flowers
of gigantic size cowered in the dark green; the erythrina stood quietly there upright like
a mountain of fire; everything rested voluptuously, or overwhelmed, in the glow of the higher-mounting
sun--only the snowy importunity of the fountain wore itself out in impotent resistance to his
sway. I too stood motionless in an unshaded opening; I no longer felt the glow as a burden;
with rapture, with awe, with rapture I felt its untamable creative energy--just as years before,
one cold winter night, I had felt its lust of destruction at a conflagration in a village of
my mountain home,--the one as wild, as inexorable as the other.

For a long while I stood thus absorbed in meditation, until suddenly I became conscious that
something or other disturbed, disquieted, irritated me. I spied about, and found that at quite
a distance away, near a low bosket of light green, a head covered by a yellow straw hat emerged
and vanished again in rhythmical alternation. I recognized the chief gardner of the city park,
a German with whom I was well acquainted. I went slowly up to him and was about to ask him
what game he was playing--I had almost taken him for a ghost--when I observed in his hand a
small basket nearly half filled with leaves. The handsome, well preserved old man with the
shrewd, kindly, white-bearded face told me now that these bushes with the grayish green, lanciform
little leaves were Chinese tea, and that he was picking the two or three outside leaves on
each twig in order to dry them for his domestic consumption. I listened while he informed me
of the details of tea culture and the curing of the crop; then, having at the moment to take
off my hat and wipe the sweat from my brow, I said, "How would it be, do you think, if, just
for a change, one could follow one's nose to Germany and bury it in snow or hoarfrost? At this
instant perhaps the sleighs are jingling along and the skaters are on the ice, or the south
wind is driving its blue-gray mist over the Alps--"

