THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL 10. No. 283. SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1827. [PRICE 2d.]

HADDON HALL.

The locomotive facility with which the aid of our graphic department enables us to transport
our readers, (for we have already sent them to Sydney,) is somewhat singular, not to say ludicrous;
and would baffle the wand of Trismegistus, or the cap of Fortunatus himself. Thus, during the
last six weeks we have journeyed from the Palace at Stockholm (No. 277) to that of Buckingham,
in St. James's Park, (278;) thence to Brambletye, in the wilds of Sussex, (279;) to Hamlet's
Garden at Elsineur, (280;) then to the deserts of Africa, and Canterbury, (281;) in our last,
(282,) we introduced our readers to the palatial splendour of the Regent's Park; and our present
visit is to Haddon Hall, in Derbyshire, one of the palaces of olden time, whose stupendous
towers present a strong contrast with the puny palace-building of later days, and the picturesque
beauty of whose domain pleasingly alternates with the verdant pride of the Regent's Park.

Haddon is situate about one mile south-east of Bakewell, and is one of the most curious and
perfect of the old castellated mansions of this country. It stands on a gentle hill, in the
midst of thick woods overhanging the Wye, which winds along the valley at a great depth beneath.
The house consists of two courts; in the centre building behind which is the great hall, with
its butteries and cellars. Over the door of the great porch, leading to the hall, are two coats
of arms cut in stone; the one is those of Vernon, the other of Fulco de Pembridge, lord of
Tong, in Shropshire, whose daughter and heir married Sir Richard Vernon, and brought him a
great estate. In one corner of the hall is a staircase, formed of large blocks of stone, leading
to the gallery, about 110 feet in length and 17 in width, the floor of which is said to have
been laid with boards cut out of one oak, which grew in the park. In different windows are
the arms of England in the garter, surmounted with a crown; and those of Rutland impaling Vernon
with its quarterings in the garter; and these of Shrewsbury. In the east window of the Chanel
adjoining were portraits of many of the Vernon family, but a few years ago the heads were stolen
from them. A date of Mi esimo ccccxxvii. is legible. In the north window the name Edwardus
Vernon and his arms remain; and in a south window is Willmus Trussel. In the chapel also stands
a Roman altar, dug up near Bakewell.

All the rooms (except the gallery) were hung with loose arras, a great part of which still
remains; and the doors were concealed every where behind the hangings, so that the tapestry
was to be lifted up to pass in or out. The doors being thus concealed, are of ill-fashioned
workmanship; and wooden bolts, rude bars, &c. are their only fastenings. Indeed, most of the
rooms are dark and uncomfortable; yet this place was for ages the seat of magnificence and
hospitality. It was at length quitted by its owners, the Dukes of Rutland, for the more splendid
castle of Belvoir, in Lincolnshire.

For many generations Haddon was the seat of the Vernons, of whom Sir George, the last heir
male, who lived in the time of queen Elizabeth, gained the title of king of the Peak, by his
generosity and noble manner of living. His second daughter and heir married John Manners, second
son of the first Earl of Rutland, which title descended to their posterity in 1641. For upwards
of one hundred years after the marriage, this was the principal residence of the family; and
so lately as the time of the first Duke of Rutland, (so created by queen Anne,) seven score
servants were maintained, and during twelve days after Christmas, the house was "kept open."

A few years before the death of Mrs. Radcliffe, the writer of "The Mysteries of Udolpho," and
several other romances, a tourist, in noticing Haddon Hall, (and probably supposing that Mrs.
R. had killed heroes enough in her time,) asserted that it was there that Mrs. R. acquired
her taste for castle and romance, and proceeded to lament that she had, for many years, fallen
into a state of insanity, and was under confinement in Derbyshire. Nor was the above traveller
unsupported in her statement, and some sympathizing poet apostrophized Mrs. R. in an "Ode to
Terror." But the fair romance-writer smiled at their pity, and had good sense enough to refrain
from writing in the newspapers that she was not insane. The whole was a fiction, (no new trick
for a fireside tourist,) for Mrs. Radcliffe had never seen Haddon Hall.

In the "Bijou" for 1828, an elegant annual, on the plan of the German pocket-books, (to which
we are indebted for the present engraving,) are a few stanzas to Haddon Hall, which merit a
place in a future number of the MIRROR.

       *       *       *       *       *

POETICAL LOVE-LETTER.

    You may be sure
    'Tis not your dow'r
  I make this flowing version;
    In those smooth lays
    I only praise
  The glories of your person.

    For the whole that
    Was left to Mat,
  Fortune to me has granted
    In equal store,
    Nay, I have more.
  What Mathew always wanted.

B.

       *       *       *       *       *

EARLY RISING.

(For the Mirror.)

  "Whose morning, like the spirit of a youth,
  That means to be of note, begins betimes."

SHAKSPEARE'S Ant. and Cleop.

It is asserted by a tragic poet, "est nemo miser nisi comparatus;" which, by substituting one
single word, is exactly applicable to our present subject; "est nemo serus nisi comparatus."
All early rising is relative; what is early to one, is late to another, and vice versâ. "The
hours of the day and night," says Steele, (Spec. No. 454.) "are taken up in the Cities of London
and Westminster, by people as different from each other as those who are born in different
countries. Now since, of these people, they who rise at six pique themselves on their early
rising, in reference to those who rise at nine; and they, in their turn, on theirs, in reference
to those who rise at twelve; since, like Homer's generations, they "successive rise," and early
rising is, therefore, as I said, a phrase only intelligible by comparison, we must (as theologians
and politicians ought oftener to do) set out by a definition of terms. What is early rising?

"Patience!" I think I hear some of my fair readers exclaim, "Is this the early rising this
new correspondent of the MIRROR means to enforce? Drag us from our beds at peep of day! The
visionary barbarian! Why, ferocious as our Innovator is, he would just as soon drag a tigress
from her's! We will not obey this self-appointed Dictator!" Stay, gentle ladies; in the first
place I am not going to enforce this or any other hour; in the second place, I am not going
to enforce early rising at all.--Convinced you feel, with me, the importance of time, and your
responsibility for its right improvement, I leave it to your consciences whether any part of
it should be uselessly squandered in your beds. The moral culpability of late rising is when
it interferes with the necessary duties of the day; and though, my fair readers, you may in
a great measure claim exemption from these, I would still, simply in reference to your health
and complexions, advise you not to exceed seven o'clock.

  "There are no gains without pains;
  Then plough deep, while sluggards sleep."

And a third proverb is a compendium of my advice to both classes of readers:

  "He who will thrive must rise at five;
  He who has thriven may sleep till seven."

So then we have defined what early rising is; seven, to those who have
nothing to do,--as soon as ever business calls, to those who have. Was ever
bed of sloth more eloquently reprobated than in the following lines from
the Seasons?
  For is there aught in sleep can charm the wise?
  To lie in dead oblivion, losing half
  The fleeting moments of too short a life,
  Total extinction of th' enlighten'd soul!
  Or else, to feverish vanity alive,
  Wilder'd and tossing through distemper'd dreams?

Exquisite indeed! But this too is a proof how nearly the sublime and ridiculous are associated,--"how
thin partitions do their bounds divide;" for this fine poetry is associated, in most reader's
minds, with Thomson's own odd indulgence in the "dead oblivion." He was a late riser, sleeping
often till noon; and when once reproached for his sluggishness, observed, that "he felt so
comfortable he really saw no motive for rising." As if, according to the popular version of
the story, "I am convinced, in theory, of the advantage of early rising. Who knows it not,
but what can Cato do?" "Ay, he's a good divine, you say, who follows his own teaching; don't
talk to us of early rising after this." Why not, unless like Thomson, you're kept up till a
very late hour by business? The fact is he did not

  --"In that gloomy state remain
  Longer than nature craves,"

after all. He had a strong apology for not rising early, in the late hours of his lying down.
The deep silence of the night was the time he commonly chose for study; and he would often
be heard walking in his library, at Richmond, till near morning, humming over what he was to
write out and correct the next day, and so, good reader, this is no argument against my position;
but observe, retiring late is no excuse for late rising, unless business have detained you:
balls and suppers are no apology for habitual late rising. And now, my dearest readers, do
you spend the night precisely as Thomson did, and I'll grant you my "letters patent, license,
and protection," to sleep till noon every day of your life. You have only to apply to me for
it through "our well-beloved" editor of the MIRROR.

W. P----N.

       *       *       *       *       *

BUNHILL FIELDS BURYING-GROUND.

This extensive burial-place is part of the manor of Finsbury, or Fensbury, which is of great
antiquity, as appears by its being a prebend of St. Paul's Cathedral in 1104. In the year 1315,
it was granted by Robert de Baldock to the mayor and commonalty of London. Part of it was,
in 1498, converted into a large field for the use of archers and other military citizens to
exercise in. This is now called The Artillery Ground.

In the year 1665, that part of the ground now called Bunhill (originally Bonhill) Field, was
set apart as a common cemetery, for the interment of such bodies as could not have room in
their parochial burial-grounds in that dreadful year of pestilence. However, not being made
use of on that occasion, a Mr. Tindal took a lease thereof, and converted it into a burial-place
for the use of Dissenters. It was long called Tindal's Burial-place. Over the west gate of
it was the following inscription:--"This church-yard was inclosed with a brick wall at the
sole charges of the city of London, in the mayoralty of Sir John Lawrence, Knt., Anno Domini
1665; and afterwards the gates thereof were built and finished in the mayoralty of Sir Thomas
Bloudworth, Knt., Anno Domini, 1666."

The fen or moor (in this neighbourhood), from whence the name Moorfields, reached from London-wall
to Hoxton; the southern part of it, denominated Windmill Hill, began to be raised by above
one-thousand cart-loads of human bones, brought from St. Paul's charnel-house in 1549, which
being soon after covered with street dirt from the city, the ground became so elevated, that
three windmills were erected on it; and the ground on the south side being also much raised,
it obtained the name of The Upper Moorfield.

The first monumental inscription in Bunhill-fields is, Grace, daughter of T. Cloudesly, of
Leeds. Feb. 1666.--Maitland's Hist. of London, p. 775.

Dr. Goodwin was buried there in 1679; Dr. Owen in 1683; and John Bunyan in 1688.

Park-place, Highbury Vale.

J. H. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUPPOSED ORIGIN OF MEZZO-TINTO.[1]

Mezzo-tinto is said to have been first invented by Prince Rupert, about the year 1649: going
out early one morning, during his retirement at Brussels, he observed the sentinel, at some
distance from his post, very busy doing something to his piece. The prince asked the soldier
what he was about? He replied, the dew had fallen in the night, had made his fusil rusty, and
that he was scraping and cleaning it. The prince, looking at it, was struck with something
like a figure eaten into the barrel, with innumerable little holes, closed together, like friezed
work on gold or silver, part of which the fellow had scraped away. The genie second en experiences
(says Lord Orford), from so trifling an accident, conceived mezzo-tinto. The prince concluded,
that some contrivance might be found to cover a brass plate with such a ground of fine pressed
holes, which would undoubtedly give an impression all black, and that, by scraping away proper
parts, the smooth superfices would leave the rest of the paper white. Communicating his idea
to Wallerant Vaillant, a painter, they made several experiments, and at last invented a steel
roller with projecting points, or teeth, like a file, which effectually produced the black
ground; and which, being scraped away or diminished at pleasure, left the gradations of light.
Such was the invention of mezzo-tinto, according to Lord Orford, Mr. Evelyn, and Mr. Vertue.

    [1] The word mezzo-tinto is derived from the Italian, meaning half
        painted.

P. T. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

    [For the following succinct account of the Gunpowder Conspiracy,
    our acknowledgments are due to the proprietors of an elegant and
    interesting Annual, entitled "THE AMULET" for 1828.]

A BRIEF HISTORY OF "THE GUNPOWDER PLOT."

(Compiled from original and unpublished documents.)

Of all the plots and conspiracies that ever entered into the mind of man, the Gunpowder plot
stands pre-eminent in horror and wickedness.

The singular perseverance of the conspirators is shown by the fact, that so early as in Lent
of the year 1603, Robert Catesby, who appears to have been the prime mover of the plot, in
a conversation with Thomas Wintour and John Wright, first broke with them about a design for
delivering England from her bondage, and to replant the Catholic religion. Wintour expressed
himself doubtful whether so grand a scheme could be accomplished, when Catesby informed him
that he had projected a plan for that purpose, which was no less than to blow up the Parliament
House with gunpowder.

Wintour consented to join in the scheme, and, at the suggestion of Catesby, went over to Flanders
to arrange some preliminary affairs there, and to communicate the design to Mr. Fawkes, who
was personally known to Catesby. At Ostend, Wintour was introduced to Mr. Fawkes by Sir Wm.
Stanley. Guy Fawkes was a man of desperate character. In his person he was tall and athletic,
his countenance was manly, and the determined expression of his features was not a little heightened
by a profusion of brown hair, and an auburn-coloured beard. He was descended from a respectable
family in Yorkshire, and having soon squandered the property he inherited at the decease of
his father, his restless spirit associated itself with the discontented and factious of his
age. Wintour and Fawkes came over to England together, and shortly after met Catesby, Thomas
Percy, and John Wright, in a house behind St. Clement's; where, in a chamber with no other
person present, each administered an oath of secresy to the other, and then went into another
room to hear mass, and to receive the sacrament. Percy was then sent to hire a house fit for
their purpose, and found one belonging to Mr. Whinniard, Yeoman to the King's Wardrobe of the
Beds, then in the occupation of one Henry Ferrers; of which, after some negociation, he succeeded
in obtaining possession, at the rent of twelve pounds per annum, and the key was delivered
to Guy Fawkes, who acted as Mr. Percy's man, and assumed the name of John Johnson. Their object
in hiring this house was to obtain an easy communication with the upper Parliament House, and
by digging through the wall that separated them, to form an extensive mine under the foundations.
A house was also hired in Lambeth, to serve as a depository for the powder, and Mr. Keys, who
was then admitted as one of the number, was placed in charge. The whole party then dispersed,
and agreed to meet again at Michaelmas. At Michaelmas it was resolved that the time was arrived
when they should commence working at their mine; but various causes hindered them from beginning,
till within a fortnight of Christmas. The party, at that time, consisting of five, then entered
upon their work; and, having first provided themselves with baked meat that they might not
have occasion to leave the house, they worked incessantly till Christmas Eve, underpropping
the walls, as they proceeded, with wood. A little before Christmas, Christopher Wright was
added to the number; and, finding their work to be extremely laborious, the walls being upwards
of three yards in thickness, they afterwards admitted Robert Wintour to assist them. Taking
advantage of the long and dreary nights between Christmas and Candlemas, they then brought
their powder over from Lambeth in a boat and lodged it in Percy's house, and afterwards continued
to labour at the mine. In the Easter following (1605) as they were at their work, the whole
party were dreadfully alarmed on hearing a rushing noise near them; but on inquiry they found
no danger menaced them, but that it proceeded from the removal of some coals in an adjoining
vault, under the Parliament House. Nothing could be more propitious for the conspirators; and,
ascertaining that it belonged to the same parties of whom they held the house, but in the possession
of a man of the name of Skinner, they lost no time in purchasing the good-will of Skinner,
and eventually hired the vault of Whinniard, at the rate of four pounds per annum. Abandoning
their original intention of forming a mine under the walls, they placed the powder in this
vault, and afterwards gradually conveyed into it three thousand billets of wood, and five hundred
fagots; Guy Fawkes arranging them in order, making the place clean and neat, in order that
if any strangers, by accident or otherwise, entered the house, no suspicion might be excited.
Fawkes then went into Flanders to inform Sir W. Stanley and Mr. Owen of their progress, and
returned in the following August. Catesby, meeting Percy at Bath, proposed that himself should
have authority to call in whom he pleased, as at that time they were but few in number, and
were very short of money. This being acceded to, he imparted the design to Sir Everard Digby,
Francis Tresam, Ambrose Rookewood, and John Grant. Digby promised to subscribe one thousand
five hundred pounds, and Tresam two thousand pounds. Percy engaged to procure all he could
of the Duke of Northumberland's rents, which would amount to about four thousand pounds, and
to furnish ten good horses.

Thus far, every thing had prospered with the conspirators; success had followed every effort
they had made.

On Thursday evening, the 24th of October, eleven days before the intended meeting of Parliament,
an anonymous letter was put into the hands of the servant of Lord Monteagle, warning his Lordship
not to attend the Parliament that season, for that God and man had concurred to punish the
wickedness of the times. It is a most extraordinary fact, that the conspirators knew of the
delivery of this letter to the Lord Monteagle, and that it was in the possession of the Earl
of Salisbury, Secretary of State, for eight days before the disclosure took place, as developed
in Thomas Wintour's confession, taken before the Lord's Commissioners on the 23rd of November,
1605; yet so strong was their infatuation, and so desperately had they set their fortunes on
the event, that they unanimously resolved "to abyde the uttermost tryall."

The generally received opinion has been, that it was to the sagacity and penetration of King
James that the detection of the conspiracy must be ascribed, and that it was his Majesty who
first suggested the agency of gunpowder: but the Earl of Salisbury, in a letter to Sir Charles
Cornwallis, ambassador at Madrid, asserts, that in a conversation between the Earl of Suffolk
(Lord Chamberlain) and himself, on perusal of the anonymous letter, the employment of gunpowder
first occurred to them, and that the King subsequently concurred in their opinion. The letter,
after having been communicated to several of the Privy Council, was shewn to the King three
or four days before the opening of Parliament, who, with great prudence, gave orders that no
notice whatever should be taken of it, but that every thing should go on as usual, until the
very day appointed. On Saturday, the Lord Chamberlain, according to the customary forms of
his office previous to the meeting of every Parliament, viewed every room and cellar belonging
to the Parliament House, and amongst others the identical vault in which the wood and powder
was deposited, and observed a man, who subsequently proved to be Guy Fawkes, standing there
to answer any questions that might have been asked. The Lord Chamberlain then went to the Privy
Council and reported what he had seen. After much discussion it was resolved that a more minute
search should be made, under pretence of seeking for stolen goods, in order that no suspicion
might arise if nothing should be discovered. Accordingly, on Monday at midnight, Sir T. Knyvett,
accompanied by a small band of men, went to Percy's house, where, at the door, they found Guy
Fawkes with his clothes and boots on. Sir Thomas immediately apprehended him, and then proceeded
to search the house and vault, and upon removing some of the wood, they soon discovered the
powder ready prepared for the explosion; then, directly afterwards, searching Guy Fawkes, they
found on him three matches and other instruments for setting fire to the train. He confessed
himself guilty, and boldly declared, that if he had happened to have been within the house
when Sir T. Knyvett apprehended him, he would instantly have blown him up, house and all.

On the arrest of Guy Fawkes, such of the conspirators as at the time were in London, fled into
the country to meet Catesby at Dunchurch, according to previous arrangement; and after taking
some horses out of a stable at Warwick, they reached Robert Wintour's house, at Huddington,
on the Wednesday night. On Thursday morning the whole party, amounting to about twenty persons,
confessed themselves to Hammond, a priest, received absolution from him, and partook of the
sacrament together, and then, with their followers and servants, proceeded to Lord Windsor's
house, at Hewell, from whence they took a great quantity of armour and weapons. They then passed
into Staffordshire, and by night reached the house of Stephen Littleton, called Holbeach house,
about two miles from Stourbridge. By this time the whole country was raised in pursuit of the
rebels; and a large party, under the direction of Sir Richard Walshe, high sheriff of Worcestershire,
early on Friday morning arrived at Holbeach house. The party in the house--consisting of Catesby,
Percy, Sir E. Digby, Robert, John, and Thomas Wintour, Grant Rookewood, the two Wrights, Stephen
Littleton, and their servants,--finding their condition now to be desperate, determined to
fight resolutely to the last, treating the summons to surrender with contempt, and defying
their pursuers. A singular accident, however, put an end to all conference between the parties.
Some gunpowder, which the conspirators had provided for their defence, proving damp, they had
placed nearly two pounds in a pan near the fire to dry; and a person incautiously raking together
the fading embers, a spark flew into the pan, ignited the powder, which blew up with a great
explosion, shattered the house, and severely maimed Catesby, Rookewood, and Grant; but the
most remarkable circumstance was, that about sixteen pounds of powder, in a linen bag, which
was actually under the pan wherein the powder exploded, was blown through the roof of the house,
and fell into the court-yard amongst the assailants, without igniting, or even bursting.

Sir R. Walshe then gave orders for a general assault to be made upon the house; and, in the
attack that followed, Thomas Wintour, going into the court-yard, was the first who was wounded,
having received a shot in the shoulder, which disabled him; the next was Mr. Wright, and after
him the younger Wright, who were both killed; Rookewood was then wounded. Catesby, now seeing
all was lost, and their condition totally hopeless, exclaimed to Thomas Wintour, "Tom, we will
die together." Wintour could only answer by pointing to his disabled arm, that hung useless
by his side, and as they were speaking, Catesby and Percy were struck dead at the same instant,
and the rest then surrendered themselves into the hands of the sheriff.

At the end of January, 1606, the whole of the conspirators, at that time in custody, being
eight in number, were brought to their trial in Westminster Hall, and were all tried upon one
indictment, except Sir E. Digby, who had a separate trial.

On the 28th of February, 1606, Garnet was brought to trial at Guildhall, before nine Commissioners
specially appointed for that purpose. Of his participation in the plot there was no doubt;
and he admitted himself criminal in not revealing it, although, as he asserts, it was imparted
to him only in confession: but it is more than probable that the valuable papers, lately rescued
from oblivion, and preserved in his Majesty's State Paper Office, will be able to prove his
extensive connexion with the plot, his knowledge of it, both in and out of confession, and
his influential character with all the conspirators.

Garnet was hanged on the 3rd of May, 1606, on a scaffold, erected for that purpose, at the
west end of St. Paul's Church. Held up to infamy by one party as a rebel and a traitor, and
venerated as a saint and a martyr by the other; the same party spirit, and the same conflicting
opinions, have descended from generation to generation, down to the controversialists of the
present day.

We subjoin the Autographs of some of the principal conspirators, from the same source as the
preceding narrative, as an appropriate and equally authentic accompaniment:--

Robert Catesbye.--Taken from an original letter from Catesbye to his cousin, John Grant, entreating
him to provide money against a certain time. This autograph is very rare.

Guido Fawkes.--Taken from his declaration made in the Tower on the 19th of November, and afterwards
acknowledged before the Lord's Commissioners.

Thomas Percy.--From an original letter to W. Wycliff, Esq. of York, dated at Gainsborough,
November 2nd, 1605.

Henry Garnet.--From one of his examinations, wherein he confessed to have been in pilgrimage
to St. Winifred's Well.

Ambrose Rookewood.--From an original letter, declared that he had felt a scruple of conscience,
the fact seeming "too bluddy."

Thomas Wintour.--From an original examination before the Lord's Commissioners, on the 25th
of November, 1605.

Francis Tresam.--From his examination relative to the book on Equivocation. Tresam escaped
being hanged by dying in the Tower, on the 23rd of December, 1605.

Sir Everard Digby.--From an original examination. He was related to John Digby, subsequently
created Baron Digby and Earl of Bristol, and was a young man of considerable talent. He was
in the twenty-fourth year of his age when executed.

To the Right Hon. the Lord Mounteagle.--The superscription to the anonymous letter that led
to the discovery of the plot. By whom it was written still remains a mystery.

All the principal conspirators were married and had families; several of them possessed considerable
property, and were highly, and, in some instances, nobly related.

L.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH BOOK

No. XLIX.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AUBERGE.

(For the Mirror.)

